THE WELCOME TO
THE SECOND TO TWENTY TWENTY A
REGULAR MEETING OF THE NRA
PLANNING COMMISSION FOR
DETAILED INFORMATION ON MEETING
PROCEDURES, PLEASE REVIEW THE
FULL PRINTED MEETING AGENDA
PROVIDED MAKES CLEAR WILL YOU
PLEASE CALL THE ROLL?
>> CERTAINLY NOTING THAT YOUR
LEAGUE AND COMMISSIONER ADAMS
HAD PLANNED ABSENCES.
VICE CHAIR ABRAM'S HERE
SECRETARY WYCHE HERE.
>> COMMISSIONER MILLS HERE.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT HERE
.
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH HERE.
COMMISSIONER CLARKE HERE ENSURE
WHETHER WE HERE YOU HAVE A
QUORUM NOTING THAT SIX
AFFIRMATIVE VOTES ARE SIX VOTES
ARE REQUIRED FOR AFFIRMATIVE
ACTION TONIGHT.
>> THANK YOU FOR MOVING ON TO
ITEM THREE ON THE AGENDA
APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE AGENDA MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
MILLS SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
WHETHER IT BE ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR OF THE MOTION PLEASE SAY
I I AND HE OPPOSED THE MOTION
CARRIES TATUM FOR ON THE AGENDA
IS APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES
OF THE PREVIOUS MEETING.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE MINUTES FROM THE MARCH
FIFTH MEETING MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER DISH SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT BE IS
THERE ANY DISCUSSION OF THE
MINUTES SEEING ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR OF THE MOTION?
PLEASE SAY I I ANY POSED THE
MOTION CARRIES ITEM FIVE ON OUR
AGENDA.
NEXT UP REPORTS TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AND IN
COMMUNICATIONS.
WE'LL BEGIN WITH A COUNCIL
REPORT FROM COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
HAPPY TO PROVIDE IT.
>> THERE WAS A LOT LAST SO SO
FIRST OF ALL THERE WERE FOUR
RESOLUTIONS EXCITING NEW
POLICIES WITH RESPECT TO
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT THAT
INCLUDES AMONG OTHER THINGS AN
EMPHASIS ON PLACEMAKING AND IT
IT CHIMES REALLY BEAUTIFULLY
WITH THE PIECE THAT YOU'VE SENT
US.
COMMISSIONER MILLS' IN THE
PIECE THAT COMMISSIONER MILLS
SENT US IT NOTES IT'S A STUDY
IT NOTES THAT WELL-DESIGNED
DENSITY PEDESTRIAN FRIENDLY
STREETS WITH EASY ACCESS TO
TRANSIT AND AMENITIES LIKE
SHOPS, RESTAURANTS, PARKS ARE
IS POSITIVELY CORRELATED WITH
WELL-BEING AND HAPPINESS BUT
POORLY DEFINED DENSITY LIKE
VERY SMALL APARTMENTS, SCARCE
GREEN SPACE AND WIDE ROADS IS
CORRELATED WITH DECREASED
WELL-BEING AND I THINK THAT SO
ONE OF THE RESOLUTIONS
EMPHASIZES THAT WE WANT TO PUT
PLACEMAKING AT THE CENTER
OF OUR DEVELOPMENT.
I THINK WE HAVE BEEN DOING THAT
IN THE WAY THAT WE'VE DESIGNED
THE TAXI ONE ORDINANCE
MODIFICATIONS THAT WE'VE MADE
TO IT AND YOU KNOW, WE ARE
SEEING PLACEMAKING COMING ABOUT
BY WHERE WE ARE SEEING GREATER
DENSITY IN THE CITY.
AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE
WONDERFUL LOWERTOWN COFFEE SHOP
AND BAR TWO OF THESE
RESOLUTIONS ARE OF PARTICULAR
INTEREST TO PLANNING COMMISSION
ONE EMPHASIZES THE NEED TO
DEVELOP A HOUSING AT ALL INCOME
LEVELS TO ACHIEVE AFFORDABILITY
GOALS AND DIRECTS STAFF TO
RECOMMEND A NUMBER
OF PROCEDURAL AND ORDINANCE
CHANGES TO FACILITATE THIS.
SOME OF THESE CHANGES BUILD ON
WORK THAT WE HAVE ALREADY DONE
HERE TO RECONSIDER WHICH
APPROVAL'S CAN STOP AT PLANNING
COMMISSION AND WHICH CAN BE
MADE BY THE PLANNING MANAGER
AND SO
MORE THINGS OF THAT ILK
WILL BE HAPPENING.
IT'S NOT ONLY PLANNING
COMMISSION THOUGH THERE'S OTHER
PARTS OF THE CITY THAT WILL BE
ASKED TO ALIGN THEIR MISSION
WITH THE MISSION OF MOVING
HOUSING PROJECTS THROUGH THE
CITY IN A TIMELY AND EFFICIENT
WAY.
THE SECOND ONE OF THE
RESOLUTIONS THAT I THINK IS
OF PARTICULAR INTEREST TO
PLANNING COMMISSION IS IT CALLS
FOR CREATIVE THINKING ABOUT
INCENTIVES FOR SUSTAINABLE
DEVELOPMENT WHICH WE'VE BEEN
TALKING ABOUT A LOT AND IT ASKS
AND THIS WILL AFFECT PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR A DEFINITION
OF WHAT COUNTS AS A FULLY
ELECTRIFIED PROJECT AND A
DEFINITION OF WHAT COUNTS AS AN
ENERGY EFFICIENT PRODUCT
PROJECT.
BOTH OF THESE DEFINITIONS NEED
TO BE IN PLACE IN ORDER TO
DETERMINE WHEN IT IS
APPROPRIATE TO AWARD INCENTIVES
SO THAT WILL BE WORK THAT IS
LIKELY COMING TO US.
HOWEVER, THE THERE'S A LOT
THAT'S LAID OUT IN THESE
RESOLUTIONS AND SO THERE NEEDS
TO BE A PRIORITIZATION AND A
CONSIDERATION OF STAFF CAPACITY
AND POSSIBLY CONTRACT HIRING TO
GET THIS WORK DONE.
FINALLY, COUNCIL APPROVED
SEVEN-ELEVEN CHURCH TO PROCEED.
THE SECOND READING COUNCIL DID
NOT DISREGARD THE STAFF MEMO OR
THE DELIBERATIONS THAT WE HAD
ON PLANNING COMMISSION.
I DID VOTE YES AT COUNCIL I AM
I HAVE DIFFERENT CONSIDERATIONS
THAT I BRING TO BEAR WHEN I AM
AT COUNCIL THEN WHEN I AM HERE
BUT I WOULD BE HAPPY TO EXPLAIN
TO ANY OF YOU NOT YOU KNOW,
TAKING UP ANY MORE OF OUR TIME
HERE OF MY THINKING ABOUT THAT
PROJECT.
SO THERE WE GO.
>> THANK YOU, MISKELLY.
ALSO ADD TO COUNCIL MEMBER
DISHES REPORT OUT FROM COUNCIL
IF I DIDN'T HEAR IT THAT LAST
NIGHT THE MULTIMODAL
TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS
EC TRANSPORTATION UDC CHANGES
WHICH WERE APPROVED AND
RECOMMENDED TO COUNCIL BY THIS
BODY PASSED AT FIRST READING
AGAIN WHAT THE CHANGES TO THAT
SECTION DO IS SIMPLIFIED
LANGUAGE AND CLARIFY WHAT IS
ALREADY REQUIRED IN THE CITY
PROCESS.
IT CHANGES ALL REFERENCES TO
TRAFFIC TO SAY TRANSPORTATION
OR WHERE APPROPRIATE MOLTING
MAKE REFERENCE TO MULTIMODAL
TRANSPORTATION TO EMPHASIZE
THAT WE'RE LOOKING TO IMPACTS
TO PEDESTRIANS, BICYCLISTS,
TRANSIT USERS IN ADDITION TO
MOTOR VEHICLES.
I HAVE SOME OTHER THINGS TO
REPORT AT THE END OF APRIL
THERE WILL BE ADDITIONAL
WORKSHOPS FOR THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN WE HAD PREVIOUSLY
WORKSHOPS IN THE DOWNTOWN AT
THE DOWNTOWN LIBRARY.
THESE WILL TAKE PLACE MORE IN
THE NEIGHBORHOODS.
THERE WILL BE THREE ADDITIONAL
WORKSHOPS THE WEEK OF APRIL
22ND.
MORE DETAILS WILL BE PUBLISHED
SOON AND THESE WILL BE HELD AT
THE DISTRICT LIBRARIES FOR
TREVER WOOD WEST GATE AND MALTZ
CREEK AGAIN WITH RELATIVE TO
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN CALENDAR
INVITES WILL BE COMING SOON TO
THOSE OF YOU WHO ARE ON THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUBCOMMITTEE
OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION
THEY'LL BE SENT OUT BY MANAGER
LEONARD SHORTLY.
THEIR PLAN TO BE FOR THE FOURTH
TUESDAYS THROUGH THE END OF THE
YEAR ON NON RC ORDINANCE
REVISIONS COMMITTEE MONTHS THAT
WOULD BE MADE JULY, SEPTEMBER
AND NOVEMBER.
SO FOURTH TUESDAY IN MAY, JULY
,SEPTEMBER AND NOVEMBER YOU
SHOULD SEE SOME INVITES FOR
THOSE SOON.
UM, THE SUBCOMMITTEE'S
ASSIGNMENT DISCUSSION WAS ON
THE AGENDA FOR THIS EVENING BUT
WE MOVED IT IN PARTICULAR
BECAUSE THERE ARE TWO
COMMISSIONERS WHO ARE NOT YET
ASSIGNED AND ONE OF THEM WAS
NOT ABLE TO JOIN US THIS
EVENING.
SO THAT WILL BE PLACED ON A
FORTHCOMING AGENDA AT YOUR FOUR
NINE WORKING SESSION.
>> THE AGENDA WILL HAVE A
PRESENTATION BASED ON REQUESTS
FROM THIS BODY TO HAVE MORE
UNDERSTANDING OF HOW PROJECTS
AND MAKE IT INTO THE CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENTS PLAN AND TO HAVE
SOME INVOLVEMENT PROVIDE
FEEDBACK IN HOW THAT HAPPENS.
EARLIER ON CALEB COLEMAN WILL
REJOIN THIS BODY TO GIVE A
PREVIEW OF THE UPDATE TO THE
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN
SCORING CRITERIA.
YOU WILL ALSO HAVE AT THE FOUR
NINE WORKING SESSION A PRE
PARTY CONFERENCE PRESENTATION
FOR TWENTY TWO SEVENTY ONE
SOUTH STATE STREET AND LAST BUT
NOT LEAST THERE WE ARE THRILLED
TO ANNOUNCE THAT THREE NEW
STAFF MEMBERS, TWO PLANNERS,
ONE ADMINISTRATOR ASSISTANT
WILL BE JOINING THE DEPARTMENT
ON APRIL 15TH.
I'M NOT YET SURE WHO IF ANY
OF THEM WILL BE ATTENDING THE
MEETING ON APRIL 16TH.
I STOPPED TO ASK THEM IF
THEY'RE FREE THAT EVENING BUT
YOU WILL GET MORE COMPLETE
INTRODUCTIONS AS YOU MEET THEM
IN THE NEAR FUTURE.
AND IF WE DON'T HAVE AN EARLY
OPPORTUNITY TO DO SO IN PERSON,
CERTAINLY WE WILL CIRCULATE
EMAIL INTRODUCTIONS YOU KNOW
WHO ARE NEW FACES ARE AND
PLEASE GIVE THEM SOME TIME TO
COME ON BOARD.
THANK YOU.
THANK.
WE'LL TRY ANY OTHER
COMMISSIONER OFFICERS OR
COMMITTEE LIAISONS HAVE
ANYTHING TO REPORT AND I'LL
TAKE NOTE THAT THERE ARE MANY
WRITTEN COMMUNICATION INCLUDING
INCLUDED IN THIS EVENING'S
PACKET.
SO WE'RE MOVING ON TO AGENDA
ITEM SIX PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE
NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING
ON THIS AGENDA.
WELL, FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THE PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PRESS STAR NINE IF LISTENING BY
PHONE OR USE THE RAISE AND
FEATURE IF VIEWING THROUGH THE
WEBLINK FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
INTERMEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX.
>> CITY STAFF WILL SELECT
CALLERS WHO HAVE RAISED THEIR
HAND USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEBLINK
YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA, MUTE TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUNDS SO WE MAY
HEAR YOU MORE CLEARLY FOR
EITHER METHOD OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
>> IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME
?
>> THANK YOU VICE CHAIR APRON'S
KEN GARBER TWENTY HOMECOURT
COUNCIL MEMBER TO MENTION THE
ECONOMIC RESOLUTIONS THAT WERE
APPROVED LAST NIGHT AMONG THE
PROCEDURAL AND ORDINANCE
CHANGES TO PROMOTE HOUSING WAS
ONE TO GET RID OF PLANNING
COMMISSION PUBLIC HEARINGS FOR
BY RIGHT DEVELOPMENT.
I MENTIONED THIS IN JANUARY.
THE PURPOSE IS TO SPEED THE
DEVELOPMENT PROCESS AND THERE'S
ALSO SOME TALK IN ARE SOME
WRITING IN THE ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT REPORT ABOUT HOW
THIS WILL MAKE PUBLIC COMMENT
BETTER TIMED AND MORE
EFFECTIVE.
BUT FRANKLY I FIND THAT
RIDICULOUS.
>> IT DOES MOVE UP THE PUBLIC
THE CITIZEN PARTICIPATION
MEETING SLIGHTLY AND ENLARGE
THE NOTICE FOR THAT.
BUT FOR ME THAT DOESN'T
SUBSTITUTE FOR LIMITING THE
PUBLIC HEARING AT THIS LEVEL.
>> THE RESOLUTION LANGUAGE
SPECIFIES ELIMINATION OF THE
PUBLIC HEARING REQUIREMENT
FACEPLANT IF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION HOWEVER PLANNING
COMMISSION MEETING SHOULD BE
RESTRUCTURED TO ALLOW PUBLIC
COMMENT FOR EACH SITE PLAN THAT
APPEARS ON THE AGENDA ITEM TO
SOUND BAD BUT IT IS FIRST IT'S
NOT CLEAR IF THESE SITE PLAN
COMMENTS WILL REPLACE THE KIND
OF GENERAL COMMENT PERIOD THAT
I'M USING NOW OR IF WE'LL KEEP
BOTH COMMENT PERIODS.
BUT THE BIG PROBLEM FOR ME IS
THE NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
THE CURRENT MINIMUM FOR PUBLIC
HEARINGS IS FIFTEEN DAYS BY
STATE LAW ONCE YOU GET RID
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING IT'S NOT
CLEAR WHAT APPLIES ACCORDING TO
YOUR BYLAWS, MEETING AGENDAS
ARE TO BE AVAILABLE TO THE
PUBLIC THE FRIDAY PRECEDING A
REGULAR MEETING QUOTE TO THE
EXTENT PRACTICABLE UNQUOTE.
>> SO THAT'S FOUR DAYS NOTICE
FOUR DAYS IS NOT NEARLY ENOUGH
TIME FOR THE PUBLIC TO PREPARE
AT LEAST NOT FOR ME.
>> AND I DON'T THINK THERE'S
ANYTHING ABOUT AGENDAS IN THE
OPEN MEETING MEETINGS ACT
EXCEPT TWO HOURS ADVANCE NOTICE
FOR CERTAIN ELECTRONIC
MEETINGS.
SO WITH THE FRIDAY BEFORE IS
NOT PRACTICABLE MAYBE THE
AGENDA DOESN'T HAVE TO BE
POSTED UNTIL TWO HOURS BEFORE
THE MEETING OR MAYBE NOT UNTIL
THE MEETING STARTS.
>> I DON'T KNOW.
>> ALSO THE BYLAWS ALLOW THE
CHAIR ANY THREE MEMBERS TO CALL
A SPECIAL MEETING THAT ONLY
REQUIRES EIGHTEEN HOURS PUBLIC
NOTICE SITE PLANS THE BYLAWS
SAY CAN BE CONSIDERED RFE
MEETINGS.
SO ONCE YOU GET RID OF THE
PUBLIC HEARING AS RECOMMENDED
LAST NIGHT YOU OPEN UP ALL
KINDS OF POSSIBILITIES FOR VERY
LATE OR NONEXISTENT ADVANCE
PUBLIC NOTICE OF SITE PLANS
THAT MIGHT COME BEFORE THE
COMMISSION.
I'M NOT SAYING THIS IS THIS
STAFF OR THIS COMMISSION WOULD
DO THAT BUT FUTURE ONES MIGHT
IN ANYWAY FOUR DAYS IS NOT
NEARLY ENOUGH SO PLEASE KEEP
SITE PLANS AS THEY ARE NOW.
YOU MAY HAVE TO DECIDE SOON ON
THIS AT LAST NIGHT'S MEETING,
ASSISTANT CITY ADMINISTRATOR
JOHN FOURNIER SAID HE WOULD
MEET WITH MR. LEONARD AND MR.
DELACOUR THIS WEEK TO MOVE
FORWARD ON IMPLEMENTING THESE
COUNCIL RESOLUTIONS.
>> STAFF MEMBER, THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYBODY ELSE PRESENT
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
>> MISS KELLY, DO YOU SEE
ANYBODY REMOTELY I WOULD LIKE
TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION VICE
CHAIR.
DO NOT.
ALL RIGHT.
WE WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING.
WE'LL MOVE TO AGENDA ITEM SEVEN
PUBLIC HEARINGS SCHEDULED FOR
THE NEXT REGULAR MEETING MAKES
KELLY AT THE PLANNING
COMMISSION MEETING FOR APRIL
16TH.
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR THERE ARE
THREE ANNEXATIONS AND ZONINGS
FOR CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL AND
ONE SITE PLAN FOR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVAL.
THE FIRST OF THE ANNEXATIONS IS
FOR FOUR FOR HUNTINGTON PLACE
ANNEXATION AND OF ZONING FOR
COUNCIL APPROVAL TO ANNEX EIGHT
POINT SIX ONE ACRE PARCEL AND
EXISTING SINGLE FAMILY HOME IN
ANN ARBOR TOWNSHIP TO THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR ZONE R-1 BE SINGLE
FAMILY DWELLING AND CONNECT TO
UTILITIES.
THE SECOND IS ONE TEN LGB
WAY
REQUEST TO ANNEX A VACANT POINT
ZERO FIVE ACRE TWO THOUSAND ONE
HUNDRED AND SEVENTY EIGHT
SQUARE FOOT PARCEL IN ANN ARBOR
TOWNSHIP TO THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR IN ZONE R ONE B SINGLE
FAMILY DWELLING EXCUSE ME AND
THE FINAL ANNEXATION 474 EAST
HURON RIVER DRIVE REQUEST TO
ANNEX A VACANT ONE POINT SIX
SIX ACRE PARCEL AND ANN ARBOR
TOWNSHIP TO THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR AND ZONE R WHEN A SINGLE
FAMILY DWELLING TO CONSTRUCT A
SINGLE FAMILY HOME AND CONNECT
TO UTILITIES.
THE SITE PLAN IS ONE FORTY TWO
EAST HOOVER AVENUE A SITE
PLANNED TO REDEVELOP TWENTY
FIVE THOUSAND SIX HUNDRED AND
THIRTEEN SQUARE FOOT SITE WITH
A NEW FIVE THOUSAND SEVEN
HUNDRED AND NINETEEN SQUARE
FOOT AUTO REPAIR FACILITY.
THE NEW BUILDING AND SOME
OF THE THIRTY TWO PROPOSED
VEHICULAR PARKING SPACES ALONG
WITH REQUIRED SITE IMPROVEMENTS
WILL BE CONSTRUCTED IN PHASE
ONE.
THE EXISTING BUILDING WILL BE
DEMOLISHED IN THE REMAINING
PROPOSED PARKING SPACES
INSTALLED IN PHASE TWO SITE
INCLUDES ONE FORTY TWO, ONE
FORTY FOUR AND 146 D TO REVENUE
ZONED C TO BE THANK YOU.
MOVING ON TO AGENDA ITEM EIGHT
A THIS IS PART OF UNFINISHED
BUSINESS FOR SIXTEEN LONG SHORT
DRIVE SITE PLAN FOR CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL.
THIS IS A PROPOSAL TO CONSTRUCT
A NEW FOUR STOREY FIFTEEN UNIT
CONDOMINIUM BUILDING NEXT TO AN
EXISTING OFFICE BUILDING.
THE SITE SIZE IS ONE POINT
SIXTY SIX ACRES.
THE ZONING DESIGNATION IS FOR
OFFICE AND THE STAFF
RECOMMENDATION IS APPROVAL WILL
BEGIN WITH A TEN MINUTE
PETITION PRESENTATION
.
THANKS FOR PICKING ME UP.
SO GOOD EVENING.
I'M JERRY LINDEBERG
REPRESENTING THE OWNERS OF THE
SITE BEFORE I KICK THIS OFF AND
INTRODUCE A PROJECT I WANTED TO
THANK YOU FOR TAKING THE TIME
TO HEAR OUR HERE OUR
APPLICATION FORMALLY AND I
WANTED TO THANK STAFF FOR
SERIES OF EFFORTS THAT OCCURRED
OVER THE LAST YEAR IN WORKING
OUT A VARIETY OF ISSUES THAT
WERE IMPORTANT TO US, WERE
IMPORTANT TO THEM AND COMING TO
A CONCLUSION THAT SEEMED TO
WORK FOR EVERYBODY.
>> SO WE APPRECIATE THE
THOROUGHNESS WITH WHICH WE
HANDLED THAT.
>> SO LIKE I SAID I'M JADI
UNDERBERG MY PARTNER AND
OWNERSHIP OF THIS FACILITY.
JIM FRY AND I ARE OWNERS
OF RESOURCE RECYCLING SYSTEMS
ARE RECYCLING CONSULTING FIRM
THAT IS HEADQUARTERED HERE IN
ANN ARBOR AND HAS BEEN SINCE
NINETEEN EIGHTY FIVE.
WE'VE BEEN ON THIS SITE SINCE
THE MID 19TH AND WE PURCHASED
IT IN EARLY 2000S AND IT IS
USED AS OUR HEADQUARTERS FOR
WHAT IS NOW THE LARGEST SUCH
CONSULTING FIRM IN NORTH
AMERICA.
WE HAVE DEEP CONNECTIONS TO THE
COMMUNITY REGION AND STATE
AMONG OUR IMMEDIATE FAMILIES WE
HAVE MANY MORE THAN HALF A
DOZEN PEOPLE WITH CONNECTIONS
TO THE UNIVERSITY STUDENTS,
EMPLOYEES, WHATNOT.
JANE MILLS IS WITH ME TONIGHT.
MY PARTNER RETIRED AFTER 30
YEARS OF CAREER BRINGING
EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES TO
NONTRADITIONAL STUDENTS
THROUGHOUT MICHIGAN AND AS PART
OF THAT LED NUMEROUS BUILDING
PROJECTS FOR SATELLITE
EDUCATIONAL CENTERS IN ADDITION
,JIM WAS AN EARLY LEADER FOR
RECYCLING HARBOR AND SERVED AS
DIRECTOR OF THE ECOLOGY CENTER
IN THE 1980S.
HE AND HIS SPOUSE LISA BRUSS
WERE INSTRUMENTAL IN THE
FORMATION OF THE LESLIE SCIENCE
CENTER AS A SEPARATE NONPROFIT
AND LISA CO-FOUNDED THE
STEWARDSHIP NETWORK IN 2004
WITH SUPPORT FOR UNIVERSITY
BOTANICAL GARDENS AND CITY
OF ENTERPRISE NATURAL AREA
PROGRAMS.
NOW THAT NONPROFIT IS APTLY
DESCRIBED AS THE NATURE
CONSERVANCY FOR EVERYBODY AND
SPREAD THROUGH THE COAST AND
ACROSS THE GREAT LAKES INTO
CANADA DURING MY TIME IN TOWN I
BUILT 100 UNITS OF GREEN
HOUSING OUTSIDE OF TOWNSHIP WAS
TRUSTEE OF ANN ARBOR DISTRICT
LIBRARY.
>> WE BUILT THREE SUSTAINABLE
BRANCHES AND WAS THE FOUNDING
PRESIDENT OF THE CLEAN ENERGY
COALITION WHICH SOME OF YOU
MIGHT KNOW WAS A SPIN OFF FROM
THE ENERGY OFFICE IN THE CITY
OF I MENTIONED THIS ALL NOT TO
SAY HEY LOOK AT ME ISN'T THIS
GREAT?
LOOK AT US.
ISN'T THIS GREAT TO SAY?
YOU KNOW, WE ARE NOT SORT
OF THE FLY IN FLY OUT
DEVELOPERS.
WE BOUGHT A PIECE OF PROPERTY
MANY YEARS AGO.
>> WE INVESTED IN THE CITY AND
THAT'S THE PROPERTY THAT WE'RE
PROPOSING TO MAKE DEVELOPMENT
FOR RIGHT NOW.
SO LET'S TALK BRIEFLY ABOUT
THAT PROJECT FEATURES OF THAT
IN FRONT OF YOU.
>> THEY CONSIST OF FIFTEEN
UNIQUE CONDOMINIUM HOMES THAT
INCLUDE ARTISTIC AND EXTERIOR
INTERIOR TREATMENTS WITH
SUBSTANTIAL LIKE THOUSANDS
OF FEET OF OUTDOOR LIVING
SPACES OVERLOOKING THE CASCADES
AND THE THEY HAVE PRIVATE
GARAGES AND ELEVATORS.
SOME MIGHT VIEW THAT AS BEING
OSTENTATIOUS.
IT TURNS OUT THAT NUMBER OF OUR
POTENTIAL BUYERS HANDICAPPED OR
HAVE DISABLED CHILDREN FOR WHOM
THAT'S VERY, VERY EXCITING
OPPORTUNITY.
WE THINK OUR BUYERS WILL
APPRECIATE THE PRIVACY, THE
LUXURY OF LIVING HIGH QUALITY
HEALTH CARE WITHIN REACH
UNIVERSAL DESIGN FOR AGING IN
PLACE AND THE SURROUNDING
NATURAL SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY
FEATURES THAT YOU ALL ENJOY WE
ALL HAVE COME TO ENJOY IN THIS
TOWN.
I KNOW THAT THERE'S GOING TO BE
SOME QUESTIONS COMING UP ABOUT
SUSTAINABILITY AND I WANT TO
SAY THAT WE'VE BEEN GREEN FROM
THE START BUILDING SITE IS
ACTUALLY A RECLAIMED DUMP.
IT'S FORMER FARMERS DUMP FROM
MANY YEARS AGO.
IT'S GOING TO HAVE NUMEROUS
ELECTRIC CAR CHARGERS IN EACH
GARAGE AND ON THE SITE SOLAR
BACKUP POWER GROUND LOOP HEAT
PUMP FOR HVAC ENERGY RAIN
GARDENS, GREEN ROOF BIKE KAYAK
STORAGE FOR USE IN LOCAL AREA
ENERGY EFFICIENT WINDOWS WELL
STRUCTURES AND FUNDED
IMPROVEMENTS TO THE NEIGHBORING
ECHO PARK ALTHOUGH YOU KNOW
THAT'S A VOLUNTARY
CONTRIBUTION.
>> THE DETAILED DESIGNS FOR
EACH OF THESE FEATURES ARE
ONGOING AND I WANT TO MAKE THAT
POINT AS AN ENGINEER THERE'S A
LOT OF BRIDGES WE HAVEN'T
CROSSED YET AND I WANT TO I
WANT TO BE CLEAR THAT MOST
MATURE PART OF THE DESIGN SO
FAR IS THE SITE PLAN.
THE STORMWATER AND THE THINGS
THAT IN PARTICULAR WE'RE GOING
TO FOCUS ON TONIGHT.
>> SO HAND-PICKED TEAM
OF PROFESSIONALS IS ALSO
INTENTIONALLY CHOSEN FOR THEIR
CONNECTION TO THE COMMUNITY
HUBS AND BLACK ARCHITECT
REPRESENTED BY DAVID NMES.
WE'LL SPEAK SHORTLY MCI WHO?
TED TED HIRSCH WHO I'M SURE YOU
ALL KNOW BECAUSE HE'S HERE
FREQUENTLY PHENIX CONTRACTING
AND MARK HISER IS OUR GENERAL
CONTRACTOR AND LISA RINNA
STELTER FROM THE RHINEHART
AGENCY WILL BE LEADING OUR
SALES TEAM.
SO THANKS.
I'M GOING TO PASS THIS ON TO
DAVID.
LOOK FORWARD TO HEARING WHAT HE
HAS TO SAY AND ANSWER YOUR
QUESTIONS, OF COURSE.
>> WELL, DAVID MS.
HOBBS AND BLACK ARCHITECTS AT
HER NORTH STATE STREET, ANN
ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
I'M HERE WITH TED HIRSCH, JD
KIND TOOK IT AWAY AND I DON'T
KNOW WHAT ELSE I REALLY NEED TO
ADD TO THAT BUT WE CAN GO
THROUGH SOME OF THE FINER
POINTS AS NOTED, WE ARE A LONG
SHORE DRIVE DIRECTLY TO THE
EAST AVAGO PARK DIRECTLY WEST
IN KIND OF A LITTLE UPHILL FROM
THE LOWER TOWN AREA THAT WAS
MENTIONED EARLIER.
THERE ARE, YOU KNOW, ONGOING
DEVELOPMENTS IN THAT ZONE
OF TOWN AS WELL AS SOME OLDER
HISTORIC STRUCTURES RELATED TO
ETC. IN THAT AREA.
SOME OF THE OLDER STRUCTURES IN
TOWN.
I THINK WE'RE GOING TO JUMP
INTO THE SITE PLAN IF TED WANTS
TO TALK ABOUT SOME OF THOSE
POINTS.
YEAH, SO JUST TO TERAHERTZ WITH
MIDWESTERN CONSULTING THREE ONE
FIVE PLAZA DRIVE ANN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN.
SO THANKS FOR EVERYONE BEING
HERE TONIGHT AND CONSIDERING
THIS PLAN FEEL REALLY GOOD
ABOUT THIS, WHAT WE HAVE BEFORE
YOU TONIGHT.
PRETTY SIMPLE AS FAR AS THE
SITE LAYOUT HERE, THE EXISTING
OFFICE BUILDING TO REMAIN AT
THE EAST END OF THE PROPERTY
THERE THERE'S AN EXISTING
GRAVEL PARKING LOT THAT HAS
OPPORTUNITY FOR FOR PUBLIC
PARKING AT THE MOMENT THAT
WOULD BE ELIMINATED IN LIEU
OF THE NEW BUILDING TO ACCESS
POINTS THAT EXIST FOR THAT
PARKING LOT WILL BE CONVERTED
INTO THE ONE ACCESS POINT FOR
ACCESS TO THE GARAGE LEVEL
OF THE NEW BUILDING THE FIFTEEN
UNIT CONDO BUILDING.
THERE WILL BE SOME IMPROVEMENTS
TO THE EXISTING OFFICE PARKING
LOT JUST TO THE EAST OF THE
EXISTING BUILDING KIND
OF PULLING IT BACK AWAY FROM
LONG SHORE DRIVE BEHIND THE
BUILDINGS, ADDING SOME
LANDSCAPING PER PER
CODE REQUIREMENTS, IMPROVING
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT OF WHICH
THERE REALLY IS NO DETENTION OR
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ON SITE
UTILITY CONNECTIONS AND AND
IMPROVEMENTS THAT I'LL TALK
ABOUT WITH THIS NEXT SLIDE SO A
LOT OF KIND OF COLOR IS GOING
ON HERE GREEN REPRESENTING
STORM ORANGE REPRESENTING
SANITARY BLUE REPRESENTING THE
THE WATER SERVICES AND WATER
MAIN OUT IN LONG SHORE DRIVE.
>> SO ALL OF THIS TO SAY
THERE'S EXISTING INFRASTRUCTURE
READILY AVAILABLE FOR
CONNECTION FOR THE NEW BUILDING
,THE EXISTING SANITARY SEWER
THAT CROSSES THE WEST END
OF THE EXISTING PROPERTY
CURRENTLY DOESN'T HAVE AN
EXISTING EASEMENT ON IT IS
PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER.
>> SO WITH THE PROJECT WE WOULD
BE ESTABLISHING A NEW PUBLIC
UTILITY EASEMENT ON THAT
FACILITY THE THE COUPLE
OF GREEN BOXES, ONE BENEATH THE
NEW BUILDING, ONE BENEATH THE
EXISTING PARKING
OUT TO THE
EAST OF THE EXISTING BUILDING.
THOSE ARE BOTH UNDERGROUND
DETENTION FACILITIES.
INFILTRATION TESTING AT THE
SITE HAS UNCOVERED FAVORABLE
SOILS.
SO WE HAVE A REALLY GOOD
OPPORTUNITY TO KIND
OF CONTRIBUTE TO THE
SUSTAINABILITY OF THE SITE WITH
THAT AND PROVIDE A LOT OF THE
STORM WATER MANAGEMENT WITH
INFILTRATION SO WHATEVER
DOESN'T GET INFILTRATED GETS
STORED IN THOSE TWO UNDERGROUND
BASINS.
EVERYTHING UP TO THE HUNDRED
YEAR STORM IS DESIGNED TO
INFILTRATE AND THEN FOR AN
OVERFLOW THERE IS A PROPOSED
KIND OF STORM SOULEYMANE THAT
FOLLOWS THE THE SOUTH EDGE
OF THE PROPERTY AND THEN
TERMINATES IN A PROPOSED LEVEL
SPREADER THAT WOULD AGAIN THIS
IS ONLY FOR OVERFLOW AND
EXCEEDANCES OF THE 100 YEAR
STORM.
SO WE DON'T EXPECT THAT THERE'S
GOING TO BE A WHOLE LOT OF FLOW
COMING THROUGH THAT PIPE.
>> BUT IF IF THERE IS THAT
LEVEL SPREAD IT SHOULD HELP IT
DISPERSE AND FLOAT TO THE WEST
WHERE EVERYTHING KIND
OF CURRENTLY FLOWS BUT
DISTRIBUTE THAT AND DISSIPATE
THE ENERGY AND AND EVERYTHING
TO TO KIND MITIGATE ANY
CONCERNS WITH EROSION HEADING
ONTO THE PROPERTY TO THE WEST
SHOULD MENTION THAT A PORTION
OF THE SITE TO THE EAST IS
CURRENTLY NOT UNDER OWNERSHIP
OF THIS DEVELOPMENT TEAM AND IS
PROPOSED TO BE INCLUDED AND
COMBINED WITH THE PROJECT
THAT'S THE TEN MINUTE ALARM.
BUT OTHER QUESTIONS WILL ARISE
DURING OUR DISCUSSION I'M SURE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ONE ONE I WE TO START
PRESENTATION PLANNER THATCHER
THANK YOU.
>> I HAVE A FEW THINGS TO ADD
THAT I'D LIKE TO POINT OUT.
YOU WELCOME YOU ALL AND HAVE A
SEAT IF YOU WANT BECAUSE WE'LL
DO A PUBLIC HEARING AND THEN
WE'LL CALL YOU BACK UP IF WE
HAVE QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU.
I THINK THERE IS A LANDSCAPE
MODIFICATION REQUEST AS PART
OF THIS PROJECT.
IT'S FOR A CONFLICTING LAND USE
BUFFER ALONG THE WEST PROPERTY
BOUNDARY WHEREABOUTS AAGOT PARK
TO BE YOUR AREA TO REDUCE THE
NUMBER OF REQUIRED TREES AND
SHRUBS THAT IS TO KEEP THEM
AWAY FROM EXISTING UTILITY
CONFLICTS AND TO PRESERVE THE
CRITICAL ROOT ZONE OF A
LANDMARK TREE THAT'S ALREADY IN
THAT AREA.
LET'S SEE ANOTHER POINT ON
LANDSCAPE IS THAT A QUESTION
CAME UP AT THE LAST CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
WHERE WE HELD A PUBLIC HEARING
FOR THIS DIDN'T GO ANY FARTHER
AND THAT WAS ABOUT WHETHER
WOODLANDS ON THE SITE WERE
BEING REMOVED.
AND I TALKED TO THE CITY
FORESTER ABOUT THAT.
SHE SAID THAT THE MAJORITY
OF THE TREES COMING DOWN OUR
BOX ELDER AND INVASIVE NORWAY
MAPLE AND TREE OF HEAVEN NO
PARKLAND TREES ARE BEING
REMOVED AND ONE HUNDRED AND SIX
TREES ARE BEING PLANTED BACK
WITH DESIRABLE SPECIES, ALL
OF WHICH ARE NATIVE TO MICHIGAN
.
THOSE LOOK LIKE A LOT OF TREES
ON THE PLAN BUT THAT HAS BEEN
REVIEWED AND I HAVE I'VE WORKED
ON OTHER PROJECTS WHERE THE
CITY FORESTER HAS SAID YOU
CANNOT PUT THAT MANY TREES IN
ONE PLACE AND SHE'S OK THIS
ONE.
SO APPARENTLY THEY'RE GOING TO
GIVE THE TREES THE BEST CHANCE
THAT THEY HAVE OF SURVIVAL AND
THRIVING.
I THINK THE ONLY OTHER THING I
HAVE IS TWO OH PARKS PARKLAND
CONTRIBUTION IS BEING MADE BY
THE APPLICANTS IN THE AMOUNT
OF NINE THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED
SEVENTY FIVE DOLLARS.
THAT IS A VOLUNTARY
CONTRIBUTION AND STAFF DOES
RECOMMEND THAT THE SITE PLAN
WITH LANDSCAPE MODIFICATIONS BE
APPROVED AND STAFF ALSO
RECOMMENDS THAT THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT BE FORWARDED TO CITY
COUNCIL FOR THEIR CONSIDERATION
WITH A RECOMMENDATION
OF APPROVAL FROM THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU WILL NOW MOVE TO THE
PUBLIC HEARING.
SO THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THIS ITEM
OR FIRST CALL INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THE PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
STANADYNE OF LISTENING BY PHONE
OR USE THE RAISING FEATURE IF
VIEWING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER
MEETING I'D NINE SEVEN SEVEN
SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO
SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME
IF AVAILABLE FOR ACCESSING
THROUGH THE WEB LINK YOU'LL
HEAR AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT
THAT THE HOST IS ALLOWING YOU
TO SPEAK WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE
MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND MUTE
TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND SOUNDS
SO THAT WE MAY HEAR YOU CLEARLY
FOR EITHER METHOD
OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
>> IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME
?
GOOD EVENING EVERYONE.
I'M MY NAME IS JUDY NICHOLAI.
I LIVE AT FIVE SEVENTEEN LONG
SHORE DRIVE.
I LIVE IN A CROSSING'S
CONDOMINIUM COMMUNITY WHICH IS
RIGHT ACROSS THE STREET FROM
THIS SITE.
I AM ALSO PRESENTLY THE
PRESIDENT OF THE BOARD OF THE
ASSOCIATION OF I WANT TO MAKE
CLEAR THAT MY COMMENTS ARE NOT
OFFICIAL BUT BUT I'VE TALKED TO
MANY OF MY NEIGHBORS ABOUT THIS
AND ALSO QUITE A FEW NEIGHBORS
WHO LIVE IN PRIVATE HOUSING IN
THE AREA AND THERE ARE SEVERAL
CONCERNS THAT COME UP CENTERING
AROUND THE IDEA THAT UNITS
OF THIS SIZE AND AT THIS PRICE
POINT ARE SO OUT OF KEEPING
WITH THE TONE OF OUR COMMUNITY
GENERALLY WHICH TENDS TO BE A
LOT OF RENTERS EVEN IN OUR
CONDOMINIUM THERE IS AN
APARTMENT COMPLEX CALLED
SHOREVIEW WHICH IS JUST WEST
OF US AND MANY SMALLER HOMES
AND SMALLER LOTS.
>> IT'S A VERY FRIENDLY
COMMUNITY.
IT'S A VERY RELAXED COMMUNITY.
I'VE HAD NEIGHBORS JOKED TO ME,
YOU KNOW, HOW CAN PEOPLE WHO
ARE GOING TO BE ABLE TO AFFORD
MULTI-MILLION DOLLAR UNITS
GOING TO LIKE THE IDEA THAT THE
FREIGHT TRAIN GOES BY AT ALL
HOURS OF THE DAY AND NIGHT AND
BLOWS WHISTLE AS IT CROSSES
PONTIAC TRAIL AND LONG SHORE
DRIVE AND THEN THE BEACH
COMMUNITY ATMOSPHERE IN THE
SUMMER.
I GUESS THAT THE THE GENERAL
SENSE IS THAT WE ARE NOT
FEELING THAT THIS IS THE
APPROPRIATE TYPE OF HOUSING FOR
OUR COMMUNITY AND WITH ONE
EXCEPTION EVERYONE I'VE SPOKEN
WITH IS NOT OPPOSED TO THE IDEA
OF MORE HOUSING IN THIS AREA
BUT THAT IT BE LOW MODERATE
INCOME HOUSING FOR WEEKS TO GO.
WHEN I WAS HERE THERE WAS A
YOUNG MAN WHO SPOKE ABOUT THE
FACT THAT SO MANY YOUNGER
PEOPLE ARE NOT FINDING HOUSING
THAT THEY CAN AFFORD TO BUY AND
OUR COMMUNITY WOULD BE
WONDERFUL FOR THAT KIND
OF HOUSING.
IT WOULD BE VERY, VERY WELL
SUITED ESPECIALLY BECAUSE IT'S
A GREAT AREA IF YOU WOULD LIKE
TO LIVE WITHOUT A CAR I AM
EXHIBIT A I HAVE NEVER OWNED A
CAR IN MY LIFE.
IT'S GREAT FOR BUSSING IN THAT
AREA WHEN YOUR MAJOR BUS LINES
WE WALK EVERYWHERE.
I WORKED AT THE HEALTH SYSTEM
FOR TWELVE YEARS AND WALK TO
WORK AND BACK AND SO IF THERE'S
GOING TO BE HOUSING ADDED IN
THIS AREA IT WOULD BE SO MUCH
BETTER TO THINK OF IT AS A
PLACE WHERE PEOPLE COULD GET A
FOOT AND BE PART OF A COMMUNITY
OF LIKE MINDED PEOPLE WHO WALK,
WHO CYCLE, WHO RECYCLE AND I
HAVE EVERYTHING GOOD TO SAY
ABOUT JIM FRY AND THE WORK THAT
HE DOES.
BUT LET'S THINK ABOUT THE
BIGGER PICTURE OF THE COMMUNITY
AND LOW AND MODERATE INCOME
HOUSING HERE WOULD BE PERFECT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
>> IS THERE ANYBODY ELSE
PRESENT WHO WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK?
HI THERE.
>> HI MY NAME'S MARY LEDUC.
I LIVE DIRECTLY ACROSS THE
PROJECT AT 416 LONG GEORGE SO
WE'RE DIRECTLY IMPACTED BY THE
CONSTRUCTION OF THIS
DEVELOPMENT.
I'D ALSO LIKE TO SAY I'M A
LIFELONG NRA RESIDENT.
I'M PROUD TO SAY THAT I'VE ALSO
BEEN IN THE DEVELOPMENT
BUSINESS FOR PROBABLY THIRTY
FIVE TO FORTY YEARS SO I HAVE A
LOT OF EXPERIENCE IN HANNIBAL
AND MOST NOTABLY PROBABLY THE
ONE YOU'LL KNOW OF IS THE
SHOPPING CENTER WHERE BARNES
AND NOBLE AND WHOLE FOODS IS
LOCATED.
>> SO I HAVE A LOT
OF EXPERIENCE WITH PLANNING OUT
WITH ALL OF YOU AND WITH THE
COUNCIL AND BEING HERE.
I'M NOT HERE TO OBJECT TO THIS
PROJECT.
I KNOW THAT HE'LL HE THEY ARE
ENTITLED TO BUY RIGHT APPROVALS
AND I'VE LOOKED AT THE SITE
PLAN AND I'VE LOOKED AT THE
DESIGN.
I'VE WORKED A LOT WITH JOBS AND
BLACK A LOT WITH MCI IN MY
CAREER.
THEY DO A GREAT I'M SURE
THEY'VE WORKED VERY HARD WITH
YOU TO TRY AND GET THIS STORM
SEWER RETENTION THING ALL
SORTED OUT BECAUSE IT'S VERY
COMPLICATED.
THE ONLY THING I'M REALLY
CONCERNED ABOUT ARE A COUPLE
OF THINGS.
ONE IS THAT THIS SITE IS SO
TIGHT I DON'T KNOW HOW YOU'RE
GOING TO DO THE STAGING OF THE
SITE AND HOW THE HEAVY
EQUIPMENT AND ALL THE MATERIALS
ARE GOING TO BE SORTED AND
ALONG SORT OF SUCH A NARROW
STREET THAT AND YOU KNOW, IN
THE IN THE HIGH SEASON WE HAVE
SO MUCH TRAFFIC THAT I JUST
DON'T KNOW HOW IT'S ALL GOING
TO BE COORDINATED.
I AM VERY DISAPPOINTED THAT WE
HAVEN'T MET JD BEFORE THIS MY
NEIGHBORS WHO ARE ON EITHER
SIDE OF ME HAVE BEEN IN THEIR
HOUSES FOR FIFTY YEARS.
I'VE ONLY BEEN IN MY TWO AND A
HALF.
THEY'VE BEEN IN THERE THIRTY OR
MORE AND I JUST THINK WITH A
PROJECT THAT'S GOING TO BE THIS
MONUMENTALLY IMPACTFUL TO US
FOR SINGLE FAMILY HOMES THAT
ARE ACROSS THE STREET FROM
THERE THAT IT WOULD HAVE BEEN
NICE TO REACH OUT AND TALK TO
US AND I WOULD HOPE THAT WHEN
THIS GOES FORWARD THAT THERE
CAN BE SOME KIND OF NORMAL
COMMUNICATION TO REACH OUT AND
LET US KNOW WHAT'S GOING TO BE
GOING ON SO WE'RE NOT
BLINDSIDED BY EVERYTHING.
SO AND LISA HAS BEEN GREAT AT
HELPING US WITH THE CARGO
TRAFFIC THAT WE HAVE WHICH IS
JUST
A MONUMENTAL ISSUE.
SO WHEN WE GET ALL OF THAT
GOING ON TOGETHER AND PLUS THEY
DID SAY THE WATER ALL RUNS
DOWNHILL SO IT'S THE HEAVY
EQUIPMENTS COMING IN AND OUT.
I HOPE THE CITY WOULD BE
MINDFUL ABOUT ALL THE DIRT AND
DEBRIS THAT'S GOING TO BE ON
LONG.
SURE.
THAT'S JUST GOING TO WANT FLOW
INTO THE WATERSHED BECAUSE WE
DON'T HAVE ANY STORM SOURCE.
THANK YOU.
THANK.
IS THERE ANYBODY ELSE WHO'D
LIKE TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
WHO'S PRESENT
?
THANK VICE CHAIR RAYBURN'S KEN
GARBER AGAIN I DO KNOW MR.
LINDEBERG AND I RESPECT HIM A
LOT AND SO I WAS VERY PUZZLED
AND DISAPPOINTED TO READ THE TO
LOOK AT THE SITE PLAN DOCUMENTS
AND READ THE STAFF REPORT
MAINLY BECAUSE OF THE GAS
CONNECTION THE IT'S NOT REALLY
CLEAR FROM THE DOCUMENTS BUT I
INFER THAT GAS APPLIANCES WILL
BE OFFERED TO RESIDENTS.
WE JUST HEARD FROM MR.
LINDEBERG THAT THERE WILL BE
AROUND HEAT PUMP H VAC WHICH
I'M RELIEVED TO HEAR IT
ACCORDING TO THE STAFF REPORT
AND PETITIONER'S STATEMENT
WITHIN THAT STAFF REPORT THAT
WAS STILL IN DOUBT IF THAT IS
NOW SETTLED I SUGGEST THAT THIS
BE ADDED TO THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT IS THE KIND OF THING
THAT YOU'VE BEEN DOING LATELY
TO ENSURE THAT THE
SUSTAINABILITY FEATURES THAT
ARE PROMISED AT THIS TABLE ARE
IN FACT ENFORCED
GIVEN THE
EMPHASIS ON THE PETITIONER'S
CREDENTIALS WHICH ARE GENUINE
AND THE SUSTAINABILITY EMPHASIS
OF THIS PROPOSAL, I THINK YOU
KNOW, IT'S APPROPRIATE IT'S
FAIR TO ASK SOME DETAILED
QUESTIONS ABOUT THESE ELEMENTS
.
THERE ARE THE DRAWINGS TO A
CONDENSER FARM AT THE GARAGE
LEVEL.
FIFTEEN SEPARATE CONDENSERS.
YOU KNOW, I'M NOT AN EXPERT BUT
I DON'T THINK THAT'S SUPPOSED
TO HAPPEN AT GROUND LEVEL
GEOTHERMAL YOU KNOW, IT'S A
QUESTION I WOULD ASK MAYBE IT
MAYBE IT IS COMPATIBLE WITH
THAT SYSTEM.
OTHER QUESTIONS I WOULD ASK IF
I WERE IN YOUR CHAIR HOW MUCH
SOLAR CAPACITY WILL THERE BE?
IT LOOKS LIKE ABOUT FOUR
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET OF ROOF
SPACE DEDICATED TO SOLAR WHICH
COMES TO ABOUT SEVENTY
KILOWATTS OF POWER BY MICHAEL
OR ABOUT SIX TWO HUNDRED SIXTY
TWO HUNDRED KILOWATTS PER YEAR
PER UNIT WHICH FOR AN ALL
ELECTRIC BUILDING WOULD EV
CHARGING WOULD SUPPLY MAYBE ONE
FIFTH OF ANNUAL DEMAND.
AGAIN THESE ARE JUST MY BACK
OF THE ENVELOPE FIGURES I WOULD
ASK THE PETITIONER ABOUT THIS
HAVE THEY MODELED THE UI ENERGY
USE INTENSITY OF THIS BUILDING
THAT WILL GIVE YOU A CLUE AS TO
HOW ENERGY EFFICIENT IT IS?
YOU KNOW, I THINK THE AVERAGE
FOR MULTIFAMILY IS SOMETHING
LIKE FIFTY THOUSAND BTU PER
SQUARE FOOT PER YEAR.
WHAT DOES THIS COME IN AT
FINALLY MOST IMPORTANTLY GIVEN
SUSTAINABILITY VALUES AND
EXPERTIZE OF THE DEVELOPER AND
THE VERY HIGH UNIT PRICE WHICH
HAS BEEN COMMENTED ON WHICH
WILL PROVIDE GROSS PROCEEDS
BETWEEN SEVEN HUNDRED DOLLARS
AND FOURTEEN HUNDRED DOLLARS
PER SQUARE FOOT, WHY NOT BUILD
FOR PASSIVE HOUSE CERTIFICATION
NET ZERO ENERGY OR EVEN LIVING
BUILDING CHALLENGE WHICH IS A
NET POSITIVE ENERGY ON SITE?
>> I'M PUZZLED.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYBODY ELSE PRESENT
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME KELLY?
IS THERE ANYBODY WHO WOULD LIKE
TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
REMOTELY?
THERE ARE TWO HANDS RAISED.
THE FIRST IS PHONE NUMBER
ENDING IN NINE FOUR TO YOUR
PERMISSION TO ADDRESS PLANNING
COMMISSION.
>> THIS IS HI.
MY NAME IS BARBARA LUCAS.
I LIVE AT ONE FOR ONE REGISTRY.
CAN YOU HEAR ME?
>> YES WE CAN.
>> OK, THANK YOU.
I'M HAPPY TO SEE DEVELOPMENT
AND LOCATION.
I'M A MEMBER OF THE ANN ARBOR
CHAPTER OF THE CITIZENS
SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY'S
VERY IMPORTANT TO ME BUT I HAVE
TWO MAIN CONCERN.
THE FIRST IS THE QUESTION
OF ELECTRIFICATION VERSUS THE
ADOPTION.
GAS MAKING GAS ADOPTION IS NOT
AT ALL SUSTAINABLE AND DOESN'T
REFLECT THE STELLAR
ENVIRONMENTAL CREDENTIALS
OF THE DEVELOPER I SECOND
SUSTAINABILITY CONCERN IS THE
SIZE OF THE UNIT AND YOU KNOW
THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE WHO LIVE
IN A BUILDING DETERMINES THE
ENERGY EFFICIENCY OF EACH
SQUARE FOOT PER CAPITA FOR
INSTANCE OF TWO PEOPLE LIVE IN
ONE OF THESE CONDOS THAT'S
TWICE THE ENERGY CONSUMPTION
PER CAPITA AS IT WOULD BE IF
FOUR PEOPLE LIVE IN THE SAME
UNIT EVEN THOUGH THESE ARE
THREE OR FOUR BEDROOM CONDOS
LIKELY MOST OF THE UNITS WILL
ONLY GO TO PEOPLE A WASTE
OF HEATED AND COOLED SPACE TO
PRIORITIZE SUSTAINABILITY.
THE DEVELOPERS WOULD BUILD MORE
UNITS ON THE SAME FOOTPRINT AT
A MORE REASONABLE BUT THAT'S
NOT LIKELY TO HAPPEN.
THERE IS ANOTHER OPTION MAKE
THE UNITS EASILY CONVERTIBLE TO
INCLUDE ACCESSORY DWELLING
UNITS.
WE DID THIS IN OUR OWN HOUSE BY
ADDING A KITCHENETTE AND
STRATEGICALLY CLOSER TO
SEPARATE THE LIVING SPACES
BETWEEN ONE SO DESIRED.
WE DESIGNED IT THIS WAY TO
ALLOW AGING IN PLACE FOR OUR
PARENTS OR FOR OURSELVES WHEN
WE GET OLDER WE HAVEN'T HAD TO
USE IT FOR AGING PLACE YET BUT
IN THE 14 YEARS WE'VE LIVED
THERE OUR HOUSE HAS HELD UP TO
FIVE RESIDENTS SOMETIMES
FAMILIES, SOMETIMES FRIENDS,
VISITING PROFESSORS DEPENDING
ON OUR FAMILIES NEEDS AT THE
TIME I SUGGEST THAT I END
DEVELOPMENT SUCH AS THIS COULD
ENSURE INCORPORATE FLEXIBILITY
TO AN OWNER OCCUPIED AIDY.
SOME MAY SAY THEY CAN ALWAYS
REMODEL LATER BUT FROM MY
EXPERIENCE WITH MY AGING
PARENTS CHANGES AND
INDEPENDENTS DON'T ALWAYS COME
WITH AMPLE WARNING BUT IT'S FAR
CHEAPER AND MORE SUSTAINABLE TO
BUILD INFLEXIBILITY FROM THE
GROUND UP THAN TO REMODEL THIS
SUGGESTION COMPLIMENT THE
STATED GOALS OF THIS PROPOSAL
WHICH CALLS FOR FOLLOWING
UNIVERSAL DESIGN TENANTS THAT
INCORPORATE FLEXIBILITY.
IT WOULD ALLOW THE PROPOSAL TO
LIVE UP TO THIS AGING IN PLACE
MISSION AS TO NEARLY DOUBLE ITS
POTENTIAL ENERGY EFFICIENCY.
THANK YOU FOR CONSIDERING MY
COMMENTS.
>> THANK YOU
.
THE NEXT CALLER IS PHONE NUMBER
ENDING IN FOUR TO NINE.
YOU PERMISSION TO SPEAK
YOU MAY
NEED TO PRESS STAR NINE TO
UNMUTED OR IS IT REAL GOOD?
>> OK, YES WE CAN HEAR YOU.
THANKS.
REMEMBER OF COURSE THAT IS 355
YELLOWSTONE IN ANN ARBOR TO SEE
THE DEVELOPMENT 416 LONG SHOT
AFTER DEVELOPMENTS ARE IN
KEEPING WITH AND OBVIOUSLY
LOOKING TO PURCHASE THE
PROPERTY AND PROVIDE STRONG
SUPPORT FOR ABASCAL NET ZERO BY
THREE BY TWENTY THIRTY.
THERE'S NO UNCERTAINTY WHAT ALL
DEVELOPMENTS WILL BE VERY SOON
IN THE FUTURE WHICH IS ALREADY
BECAUSE MANY RESPONSIBLE PEOPLE
ON THE PLANET WANT TO ADDRESS
THE CLIMATE CRISIS.
THEIR HOMES ARE NOT YET IN FOR
THE BETTER PART OF A
PERSPECTIVE OF OUR HEATING AND
FOR DRYING THEY CAN DO THIS
MORE THAN LOWER PRICED EXISTING
HOME.
>> IT'S EXCITING TO GROW THE
COMMUNITY PRODUCTS IN CHICO
WILL BE IMPLEMENTED IF THAT'S
WHAT I UNDERSTAND FROM WHAT THE
COMMENTS FROM JD WEINBERG
EARLIER I WANT WE'RE GOING TO
COVER OUR UNITS AND THAT ALL
THE SPACE HEATING AND THE
LIGHTING AND DRY WILL BE COMING
THROUGH BROWN EXCHANGE.
>> I PREFER THAT THEY'RE NOT
BEING OK BECAUSE I THINK THIS
IS JUST THE THINKING APPROACH
TO DEVELOPMENT AND THE FACT
THAT THE DEVELOPERS HAVE CHOSEN
TO DRIVE OUT OF THE PROPERTY,
APPRECIATE THEIR WORK TOWARDS
SUSTAINABILITY.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
THEY'RE NO FURTHER OK I WILL
THEN NOW READ THE PROPOSED
MOTION THE CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVES A FOUR ONE
SIX LONGSHORE SITE PLAN WITH
LANDSCAPE MODIFICATIONS TO
ALLOW A REDUCTION IN THE NUMBER
OF PLANTINGS REQUIRED WITHIN
THE 15 FOOT CONFLICTING LAND
USE BUFFER ALONG THE WEST
PROPERTY LINE AS IT COMPLIES
WITH ALL APPLICABLE
REQUIREMENTS OF THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE AND OTHER
APPLICABLE LAWS, ORDINANCES,
STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS AND
BASED UPON THE FOLLOWING
CONDITIONS ONE ALL PARCELS MUST
BE COMBINED BEFORE ISSUANCE
OF ANY BUILDING PERMITS TO THE
APPROVAL OF AND COMPLIANCE WITH
THE DEVELOPER AGREEMENT
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
THE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
RECOMMENDS APPROVAL OF A FOUR
ONE SIX LONG DRIVE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT MOVED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER WAGE AND WE ARE
NOW IN DISCUSSION OF THE
PROPOSED MOTION COUNCIL MEMBER
JOSH THANK YOU CHAIR ABRAM'S
THANK FOR THE PRESENTATION.
THANKS EVERYONE FOR THE
COMMENTS.
SORRY.
>> SO UM I WANTED TO RAISE A
COUPLE OF ISSUES AROUND
SUSTAINABILITY.
UM AND TO ELEVATE A COUPLE
OF RESIDENTS CONCERNS THAT
WE'VE HEARD TONIGHT OR I'VE
HEARD OTHERWISE AND THEN THERE
WAS ONE CONCERN ALSO RAISED
LAST TIME THAT UM MISS THATCHER
DID NOT ADDRESS AND THAT
I'LL
I'LL BRING UP SO AND I WILL BE
QUICK SO YOU KNOW, DELIGHTED TO
UH TO HEAR YOUR CREDENTIALS IN
THE ENVIRONMENTAL COMMUNITY AND
IT IS GREAT TO HAVE FOLKS LIKE
YOU DOING ONGOING WORK IN ANN
ARBOR.
UM SO AND I AM REALLY HAPPY TO
HEAR THAT IT SOUNDS LIKE THE
GROUND LUPPI HEAT PUMP HVAC IS
GOING TO WORK AND I AND I DO
UNDERSTAND AND I DID HEAR YOU
SAY THAT DETAILED DESIGN FOR
THESE ENERGY-EFFICIENT FEATURES
ARE ONGOING SO YOU DON'T YET
KNOW ALL YOUR CALCULATIONS BUT
I'M WONDERING IF YOU COULD GIVE
US AN IDEA DO YOU EXPECT TO GET
CLOSER TO NET ZERO WITH THIS
PROJECT AND HOW CLOSE WOULD YOU
BE ABLE TO GET BECAUSE IT ISN'T
JUST AS WE ALL KNOW
ELECTRIFICATION.
IT'S ELECTRIFICATION AND ENERGY
EFFICIENCY YOU CAN ANSWER YEAH.
>> THIS IS A PART WHERE YOU GET
TO COME BACK SO SO I LIKE TO
PUT COMMITMENTS IN FRONT OF THE
PROPER DESIGN STAGE AS YOU
POINTED OUT THAT THIS YOU YOU
CORRECTLY DISCERNED MY POINT
ABOUT DESIGN THINGS ONGOING AND
SO ALL I CAN SAY IS WE'RE
WORKING ON THAT.
WE'RE IN THE PROCESS
OF SELECTING MATERIALS RIGHT
NOW AMONG OTHER THINGS.
NOW WINDOWS HAVE BEEN SELECTED
YET NOW AS YOU CAN IMAGINE, IF
YOU'VE SEEN PICTURES THERE'S
QUITE A LOT OF GLASS BUT IT'S A
GLASS.
A LOT OF GLASS MEANS WELL A LOT
OF GLASS MEANS HEAT GAIN IN THE
SUMMER NOT A GLASS MEANS
POTENTIAL HEAT LOSS IN THE
WINTER RIGHT NOW THAT PROCESS
TO BE HONEST, WE NEED TO GET
THROUGH THIS STAGE WHICH IS A
REALLY BIG STAGE BEFORE WE
DEVELOP THE DESIGN INVESTMENT.
SO THOSE DETAILS ALL I CAN SAY
IS THAT THE YOU KNOW, THE THE
GOAL HERE IS TO CREATE A
BUILDING UNIT THAT STANDS THE
TEST OF TIME THAT IS A LEGACY
IN BOTH VISUAL AND OPERATIONAL
WAYS THAT RECOGNIZES THAT IN
THE FUTURE EVEN MORE SO THAN
TODAY I HOPE THE PRICE
OF ENERGY IS GOING TO BE HIGHER
WHICH IS GOING TO INCENTIVIZE
ITS USE AND THAT WILL BE WITH
THIS IS THAT WILL BE A VERY
EFFICIENT TYPE BUILDING UNIT.
AT THE SAME TIME WHAT WE WANT
TO DO IS PROVIDE OUR RESIDENTS
WITH AN EXPERIENCE OF THE
OUTDOORS COMING INDOORS AND I
THINK THAT THE ULTIMATE
SUSTAINABILITY OF A BUILDING
NOT ONLY HOW MUCH ENERGY IT
USES BUT HOW PEOPLE FEEL AND
THEIR RELATIVE HEALTH BOTH
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL WITHIN THAT
BUILDING.
>> SO TRYING TO BALANCE ALL
OF THOSE THINGS.
OK, UNDERSTOOD.
UM, I'M GOING TO COME BACK TO
GLASS AND THE OUTDOORS COMING
INDOORS SOON.
BUT FIRST I WANT TO ASK YOU HOW
YOU WOULD ACCOMMODATE COMPOST
IF YOU ARE USING WHEELED HEARTS
ARE REGULAR OR WHATEVER THEY
ARE NINETY GALLON UH CARTS FOR
RECYCLING AND TRASH YOU ARE
ACTUALLY ALREADY SCHEDULED FOR
REGULAR COLLECTION SIMILAR TO A
SINGLE FAMILY HOME.
SO IF YOU HAVE SPACE IT MAY
WELL BE POSSIBLE FOR YOU TO ADD
A COUPLE OF COMPOST BINS AT
THIS TIME IT IS UNLIKELY THAT
YOU NEED 15 OF THEM BECAUSE ONE
DOES NOT FILL UP ONE'S COMPOST
BIN.
EACH UNIT WOULD NOT DO THAT
EVERY WEEK.
SO I'M INTERESTED TO KNOW IF
YOU THOUGHT ABOUT ACCOMMODATING
COMPOST I CAN CHECK CHECK WITH
MY FRIENDS AND SOLID WASTE AS
TO WHETHER IT IS TRUE THAT YOU
COULD HAVE WHEELED CARTS.
>> YES IT IS TRUE.
YEAH.
SO JUST JUST JUST TO BE CLEAR I
THINK AT THIS POINT THE PLAN
WOULD BE TO TAKE THE TO HAVE
THEM DELIVERED TO THE CITY SITE
QUICKLY THROUGH THE COLLECTION
PROCESS WHICH TO BE DESIRED.
>> SO STILL I'M VERY FAMILIAR
WITH THAT PROCESS AND AND THE
90 GALLON CARTS PROBABLY TWO OR
THREE OF THEM IS PROBABLY
ENOUGH BECAUSE AS YOU KNOW,
FOOD WASTE IN PARTICULAR IS NOT
A HUGE VOLUME.
RIGHT.
IT'S QUITE IT'S QUITE HEAVY.
YEAH.
I MADE REFERENCE EARLIER TO
WORKING OUT SOME DESIGN
DETAILS.
IT TURNS OUT.
BUT ONE OF THE DESIGN DETAILS
THAT HAD TO GET WORKED OUT
WOULD APPRECIATE THE HELP STAFF
WAS WHERE TO PUT THE CARTS ON
THE SIDE ON THE SIDE OF THE
ROAD AND NOT INTERFERE WITH
FIRE ACCESS BECAUSE FIRE
DEPARTMENT WANTED TO DO IN
TERMS OF AERIAL POWER ACCESS.
SO THAT WAS ONE OF THE THINGS.
>> SO THERE'S THERE'S SPACE FOR
THAT.
SO THERE IS SPACE FOR
COMPOSTING IN IT IS YOUR INTENT
TO PROVIDE SUPER THANK YOU.
UM, SO I WANT TO HIGHLIGHT A
COUPLE OF RESIDENT CONCERNS AND
ONE IS THAT THIS PARCEL ZONED
OFFICE WHICH ALLOWS COMMERCIAL
SHORT TERM RENTALS AND CONCERNS
HAVE BEEN RAISED BY NEIGHBORS
REGARDING THE POSSIBLE THAT
THESE UNITS WOULD BE BOUGHT BY
INVESTORS AND MONETIZED
INVESTORS.
>> I WONDERED IF YOU INTENDED
TO USE THEM THAT WAY OR AND IF
YOU INTENDED TO SELL THEM FOR
THAT USE.
MY EXPECTATION WAS THESE ARE
GOING TO BE SOLD TO OWNERS WHO
ARE GOING TO LIVE THERE
THEMSELVES.
>> I DO NOT YET.
WE DO NOT YET HAVE A
CONDOMINIUM SET OF CONDOMINIUM
DOCUMENTS THAT WOULD DEFINE
THOSE THINGS, YOU KNOW, SO
THERE'S NO SORT OF THERE'S NO
MASTER DEED AND CONDOMINIUM
DOCUMENTS THAT HAVE BEEN FILED
WITH THE STATE EXPRESSLY
PROHIBITS THAT.
BUT THAT'S NOT THE INTENTION
OF THIS DEVELOPMENT.
>> WELL, THAT'S SUPER IF IT'S
NOT YOUR INTENTION, WOULD YOU
BE WILLING TO ADD THAT TO THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT?
I'M RELUCTANT I'M RELUCTANT TO
TO TAKE THOSE STEPS AT THIS
POINT BECAUSE TO BE HONEST,
THIS DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
THERE'S ALREADY AFTER WE GET
THROUGH TONIGHT AND I DIDN'T
WANT TO UPSET THE APPLECART
HERE.
BUT YOU KNOW, THERE'S THERE'S
WHILE WE'VE DEFINITELY AGREED
TO THE VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTION
TO THE PARKS OR SEVERAL OTHER
THINGS IN THERE THAT WERE
OF CONCERN TO OUR ATTORNEY AND
WE'RE GOING TO BE ADVANCING TO
MISS THAKKAR SHORTLY.
>> SO I'M TO BE FIRST OF ALL, I
HAVE TO BE REALLY CLEAR THERE
WAS NEVER ANY MENTION OF THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT EVEN BE
NEEDED UNTIL ABOUT A WEEK
BEFORE THE ORIGINAL THE
ORIGINAL PROCESS BECAUSE BY
UNDERSTANDING FROM PREVIOUS
PLANNING STAFF WAS THAT FOR BY
RIGHT DEVELOPMENT VERY OFTEN
YOU DON'T DO DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENTS SO THE WHOLE CONCEPT
OF THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
WAS KIND OF A CURVE BALL.
WELL I'M SORRY TO PASS ON A
SORT OF UM BUT I JUST DO WANT
TO EMPHASIZE WHICH I NEED TO DO
EVEN IF THIS WEREN'T MY WARD
WHICH IS I DO NEED TO EMPHASIZE
THAT UM THIS IS A PART OF TOWN
THAT'S VALUED FOR ITS NATURAL
AMENITIES FOR THE AAGOT PARK
WHICH THOUGH IT'S GOT ITS
DISADVANTAGES AT THE SUMMER AT
THE HEIGHT OF BEACH SEASON IS
STILL REGARDED AS A AS A KIND
OF A RUSTIC PLACE AND THE
NEIGHBORS ARE I THINK DOING
THEIR BEST TO BE WELCOMING TO
THE IDEA OF HOUSING AND I
PERSONALLY WOULD HAVE A SAD
FEELING IN MY STOMACH IF THIS
WERE NOT PERMANENT RESIDENTS
HOUSING IF IT WERE TO.
YEAH, AND I THINK THAT IN TERMS
OF WERE I TO PURCHASE A CONDO
THERE WHICH I WON'T BECAUSE I
WOULDN'T BE ABLE TO AFFORD IT
BUT I I WOULD PREFER THAT THERE
WERE NOT THERE WAS NOT
COMMERCIAL ASTAR USE THAT
BUILDING THOSE CONDOS ARE VERY
EXPENSIVE AND THAT WOULD
DIMINISH THEIR VALUE FROM MY
PERSPECTIVE.
SO IF WE WERE TO LIVE THERE I
THINK I WOULD HAVE THE SAME I
WOULD HAVE TO SAY SO I'M I
UNDERSTAND I KNOW YOU'RE
FEELING REALLY NOT HAPPY ABOUT
THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT BUT
IF IF THINGS FEEL BETTER FOR
YOU AT SOME POINT AND YOU
WOULDN'T MIND PUTTING WHAT YOU
FULLY ALREADY INTEND INTO THE
AGREEMENT, THAT WOULD BE GREAT
AND WE'LL DROP THAT FOR NOW.
BUT I WANTED TO RAISE UM THEN
FINALLY I DO I LOVE THE IDEA
OF THE OUTSIDE COMING IN AND I
ALTHOUGH I THINK THE BUILDING
IS A LITTLE MORE COLORFUL FOR
ME BUT STILL I DO LOVE THE
GLASS.
I THINK IT'S GOING TO BE
LOVELY.
UM BUT THIS IS APPARENTLY AN
EXTREMELY POPULAR FLIGHT WAY A
LOT OF PEOPLE GO THERE A BIRD
AND A LOT OF BIRDS FLY.
>> MM.
AND HOPEFULLY THERE WOULDN'T BE
THE POTENTIAL FOR THE BIRD
FLYING RIGHT INTO YOUR HOUSE
ALTHOUGH THAT HAS ACTUALLY
HAPPENED TO ME WITH A WILD
TURKEY IT WAS MOST PLEASANT AND
SINCE YOU HAVE NOT YET NO IT'S
OK CHOSEN THE WINDOWS I'M
WONDERING IF YOU MIGHT CONSIDER
EXPLORING THE POSSIBILITY
OF BIRD RESISTANT GLASS TO
MINIMIZE YOU KNOW I DON'T THINK
ANYBODY WANTS TO GET UP IN THE
MORNING YET FIND SOMETHING IN
HERE IT FIND IT HAVE IT BE SO
ROUTINE YOU KNOW.
>> OH GOSH I APPRECIATE THAT.
YEAH.
CONSIDERATELY THAT'S JUST
GREAT.
>> WELL MAYBE I'LL CUT OUT
SOMETHING THAT HAS BEEN
EFFECTIVE IN OTHER SETTINGS SO
ANY ANYTHING THAT YOU KNOW IF
YOU'RE AS YOU'RE INVESTIGATING
THE GLASS POSSIBILE IS
UNDERSTAND THAT IT IS SUCH A
WILDLIFE BIT SO THANK YOU FOR
CONSIDERING THAT ABSOLUTELY.
>>
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS FOR
QUESTIONS OF DISCUSSION.
COMMISSIONER MILLS' UP THERE
AGAIN.
HI THANKS.
UM SPECIFIC TO THIS PLAN I WANT
TO SAY UH AND THANKS IN THE
STAFF REPORT FOR THE TABLE
LAYING OUT HOW IT KIND
OF COMPORTS WITH WHAT THE
CODE CALLS FOR.
SO I DON'T SEE ANYTHING KIND
OF OUT OF THE ORDINARY.
I'LL POINT OUT TO THE OTHER
COMMISSIONERS OF THIS LIKE CLUB
IS COMING UP AGAIN.
THAT'S ONE OF THE LANDSCAPE
MODIFICATIONS THAT'S
CONFLICTING AND USE BUFFER
THAT'S TALKING ABOUT WHERE THAT
WORKS OR WHERE THERE ARE
CHALLENGES HAPPENS A LOT AT
THIS TABLE.
>> SO THERE WAS A LOT OF BACK
AND FORTH ON THAT SUBJECT AND
SOME DEGREE OF UNCERTAINTY
ABOUT ALL PARTIES.
I WOULD WANT TO POINT OUT THAT
THAT THERE'S AN EASEMENT OVER
THERE.
I DON'T KNOW IF YOU KNOW THIS
BUT A VERY DEEP EASEMENT THAT
ENGINEERING DID NOT HAVE A
RECORD OF HOW HOW FAR DOWN THE
SANITORIUM WHO WERE WAS AND NO
EASEMENT WAS IN PLACE WHEN WE
BOUGHT PROPERTY.
AND SO ONE OF THE AGREEMENTS
THAT WE'RE MAKING IS IS IS
MEMORIALIZED IN THE IN THE IN
THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT IT IS
NOT CONTROVERSIAL IS THAT WE
WILL PUT AN EASEMENT ON THE
PROPERTY BUT IT DID CREATE
CONSIDERABLE CONSTRAINTS
BECAUSE AS I THINK MANY OF YOU
KNOW, THE DEEPER THE PIPE THE
BIGGER THE EASEMENT BECAUSE THE
WIDER THE HOLE HAS TO BE.
WE'RE GOING TO GET IT SO THERE
WAS A MOVEMENT OF THE BUILDING
UPHILL BECAUSE OF THAT.
>> CONSEQUENTLY WE MOVED OUT
OF THE CONFLICTING LAND USE
AREA.
MM HMM.
SO WE ACTUALLY TED TED TED THAT
HAS CORRECTED ME ON SOMETHING
SO I'LL BE I'LL BE QUIET NOW
I'M SORRY.
I JUST WANTED TO MENTION THAT
THERE WAS A TIME THAT A
LANDSCAPE MODIFICATION WAS
REQUESTED BUT WE
DEVELOPED A
STRATEGY WHERE WE ELIMINATED
THAT OK, WE DO HAVE THE
REQUIRED AMOUNT OF PLANTING'S.
>> OK, SO THAT'S NO LONGER IN
OUR MOTION.
I GUESS THAT'S A QUESTION FOR
STAFF TO THE EXTENT THAT IS IT
OK FOR US TO APPROVE IT AS
DRAFTED THE MOTION IS DRAFTED
AND READ OR UH I BELT AND
SUSPENDERS APPROACH.
I MEAN SINCE IT SAYS THE MOTION
ALLOWS A REDUCTION THAT DOESN'T
REQUIRE THEM TO TAKE THAT
REDUCTION.
YEAH OK.
BUT WE CAN GET GUIDANCE FROM
STATICALLY WORKED OUT SO OK I
THINK IT'S OK.
OK SUPER I JUST WANT GRAPHICS I
WANT TO SAY THAT WHAT I
APPRECIATE AND LOOKING AT THE
RENDERINGS IS I THINK THIS IS A
BEAUTIFUL BUILDING AND LOOKS
THE DESIGN CARRIES THROUGH ON
ALL OF THE SIDES BECAUSE IT'S
GOING TO BE AT THE TOP OF A
HILL AND WILL BE SEEN ALL
AROUND AND AND SO I THINK IT'S
TOUGH TO TELL WHAT IS THE FRONT
THE BACK AND I THINK THAT THAT
IN THIS PLACE IS FITTING AND I
THINK IT WILL BE YOU KNOW,
IT'LL BE A CHANGE TO THE
LANDSCAPE CERTAINLY.
BUT I THINK IT WILL IT WILL NOT
BE KIND OF JUST A STANDARD
THING THAT IS OUR GOAL AND WE
APPRECIATE THAT ONE.
THE THINGS THAT I ALSO THIS IS
THIS IS THE ZONING IS WOULD
ALLOW FOR THIS LAND.
RIGHT.
SO THERE'S A LOT OF THINGS AS
YOU KNOW, WE ASK AND ONE OF THE
QUESTIONS THAT I HAD IN GOING
THROUGH ESPECIALLY KIND OF THE
LEAD UP TO THE SUSTAINABILITY
IS TRYING TO UNDERSTAND WHAT IS
SORTED OUT AND WHAT WE WHAT THE
SITE PLAN COVERS THAT WE KNOW
WILL BE COMING AND WHAT ARE THE
THINGS THAT ARE STILL BEING
WORKED OUT.
SO THE THE BIOMASS SOLAR ROOF
FOR EXAMPLE, IS SHOWN ON THE
SITE PLAN.
SO THIS IS THIS IS A HALF
QUESTION TO YOU AND A HALF
QUESTION TO STAFF JUST THAT
THAT IS A REQUIREMENT.
YES.
IF IT'S SHOWN ON THE SITE PLAN
OR IS IT NOT A REQUIREMENT IT
IS A REQUIREMENT.
OK, GREAT ON THE SOLAR IN
PARTICULAR ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT I THINK IS REALLY
INTERESTING IS IN MULTIFAMILY
LIKE HOW THOSE SOLAR HOW THAT
SOLAR IS APPORTIONED TO
PARTICULAR UNITS YOU'RE STILL
WORKING RIGHT.
BUT I GUESS IT IS INTERESTING I
THINK THAT THIS IS AN
INTERESTING CASE STUDY TO BE
ABLE TO SHARE LIKE HOW YOU'RE
THINKING ABOUT THAT BECAUSE YOU
KNOW YOU WON'T BE THE OWNER
LONG TERM.
>> YOU'RE SELLING.
AND SO THE IDEA OF YOU MAKING
THE INVESTMENT UP FRONT THOUGH
AND THOSE SOLAR PANELS GOING
WITH THE UNITS I MEAN I THINK I
THINK THAT'S A GREAT AND I'M
CURIOUS I'LL BE CURIOUS TO SEE
HOW IT HOW IT SHAKES OUT AT THE
END THE EEVEE CHARGING THE
EXCEEDING EV CHARGING SPOTS IS
SHOWN ON THE SITE PLAN.
SO THOSE ARE COMING THE HIGH
EFFICIENCY WILL EFFECTIVELY
WHAT WAS IN THE STAFF REPORT
WAS ABOUT THIS ALL OF THE UNITS
BEING YOU YOU CAN CHOOSE YOUR
OWN ADVENTURE GAS OR ELECTRIC.
>> MY QUESTION AND MAYBE THIS
IS TO BE SORTED OUT BUT HAVE
YOU TALKED TO D.T. AND TO BE
ABLE TO SIZE THE CONNECTION
ASSUMING EVERYBODY CHOOSES
ELECTRIC WE HAVE NOT OK AND SO
I THINK THAT RIGHTFULLY PEOPLE
POINTED OUT THAT THERE'S A
POINT ON THE DRAWING THAT SAYS
WE'RE GOING TO EXPAND THE LINE
ABOUT TWO THIRDS OF THE WAY
DOWN THE BUILDING THE THE
SUPPLY IS TWO INCHES IT THEN
HIS GOES TO SOMETHING SMALLER,
AN INCH AND A HALF OR SOMETHING
AND THERE REQUIREMENT IF WE
WERE TO TAKE LEADS OFF OF IT IS
THAT THAT IT'S GOING TO COME IN
THE FAR SIDE OF THE BUILDING
WHEN WE DO MAKE A CONNECTION
HOWEVER WHAT I'M GOING TO WHAT
I'M GOING TO SAY IS WHEN I
THINK ABOUT THIS I WANT TO GO I
WANT TO GO AFTER THE I WANT TO
GO AFTER THE THINGS THAT ARE
REALLY SO HEATING VENTILATION
AND COOLING IS ABOUT SIXTY FIVE
PERCENT OF THE BUILDING'S
ENERGY USE.
HOT WATER HEATING IS ANOTHER 30
PLUS PERCENT.
YOU VERY QUICKLY GET OVER 97
PERCENT BEFORE YOU GET TO
COOKING.
>> MM HMM.
THEN YOU HAVE THE QUESTION
OF THE QUALITY OF THE GRID
ELECTRICITY AND WHETHER TODAY
IT'S A BETTER CARBON CHOICE TO
USE NATURAL GAS WHICH IS VERY
POSSIBLE OR IT'S A BETTER
CHOICE TO USE ELECTRICAL MY
BELIEVE IN AND I'LL BE VERY
HONEST THIS IS A HIGH PRICE
POINT WE NEED TO MAKE THE SALES
I WANT TO CREATE AS MUCH VALUE
FOR PEOPLE AS POSSIBLE BOTH
REAL AND PERCEIVED.
I THINK IT'S A GOOD OPTION TO
HAVE IT SORT OF CHOOSE YOUR OWN
ADVENTURE BECAUSE I DO THINK IN
FIVE TO TEN YEARS IF WE VALUE
CARBON THE WAY WE SHOULD THAT
THERE MIGHT BE SOME CHOICES,
DIFFERENT CHOICES BEING MADE
ABOUT WHETHER OR NOT INDUCTION
COOKTOP ARE THE THING TO GO OR
GAS.
I FULLY EXPECT A NUMBER
OF PEOPLE ARE GOING TO GO RIGHT
AWAY WITH INDUCTION COCKUPS.
I'M NOT INTERESTED IN FORCING
THAT ON MY BUYERS RIGHT UP
FRONT, ESPECIALLY IF WE'RE
SUCCESSFUL AND I WANT TO BE
CAREFUL HERE ABOUT THIS GROUND
LUPPI PUMP.
I FORESEE A NUMBER
OF ADVENTURES IN TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT HOW TO GET THE
GROUND LOOPS IN THE GROUND
WITHOUT INTERFERING WITH OTHER
THINGS THAT HAVE BEEN VERY
CAREFULLY NEGOTIATED.
SO YOU KNOW, I'M I'M MODESTLY
OPTIMISTIC THAT THIS IS GOING
TO WORK BECAUSE IT'S GOING TO
BE MUD MAKE IT FOR MUCH BETTER
PROJECT AND MR. GARBER REFERRED
TO THE CONDENSERS NOT A FEATURE
,NOT A FEATURE AND THEY
WOULDN'T BE NEEDED IN A LOOPT
PUMP SITUATION BECAUSE THE THE
THE ENERGY IS COMING FROM THE
FROM THE GROUND.
SO AND IN FACT ONE OF THE
THINGS I'M INTERESTED IN DOING
IS BASICALLY WORKING OUT A
UTILITY DEAL WHERE WE HAVE AN
OUTSIDE INVESTOR THAT INVESTS
IN THE IN THE IN THE IN THE
GROUND LOOPS AND ESSENTIALLY
SELLS US THE GROUND ENERGY OVER
15 OR 20 YEAR PERIOD THAT WE
BUY AS IF WE'RE BUYING IT FROM
DTT AND WE STABILIZE THE PRICE
IT'S FIXED FOR THAT 90 PLUS
PERCENT OF THAT ENERGY DEMAND
AND AS YOU KNOW IT REALLY IS A
LOW HANGING FRUIT TO DO THAT.
YOU'RE BASICALLY GETTING IT FOR
EVERY UNIT ELECTRICITY YOU PUT
IN YOU'RE GETTING THREE OR FOUR
ADDITIONAL UNITS OF ENERGY.
THE LEVERAGE IS AMAZING.
SO IT'S 75 OR 80 PERCENT
IMPROVEMENT ON YOUR OVERALL
EFFICIENCY.
YEAH, I'M I'M EXCITED ABOUT
THAT OPPORTUNITY BUT WE GOT TO
GET THE WELLS IN THE GROUND
RIGHT.
AND THAT WAS TWO MORE DOWN ON
MY LIST TO SAY TO JUST CLARIFY
THAT THAT IS BEING EXPLORED BUT
IT'S NOT ON THE SITE PLAN AND
SO JUST TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
BECAUSE THIS IS ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT I WANT TO MAKE SURE
LIKE THIS MAY NOT HAVE GROUND
LIKE IT MAY NOT HAVE GROUND
SOURCE HEAT PUMPS THERE AND
THERE'S NOTHING THAT'LL BE
CLEAR.
I PERSONALLY PUT IN A LOT
OF HOURS ON THIS OUR CONTRACTOR
NOT WORKING WITH MECHANICAL
DESIGN TO FIGURE OUT LOADS FROM
THE COOLING LOADS OF THE
HEATING AND THAT'S GOING TO
THEN HAVE TO BE MATCHED UP
RIGHT.
BUT YOU KNOW, I'VE ALREADY
TALKED TO THE UTILITY PROVIDER
OF THIS.
THEY HAVE A DEAL.
THEY'VE DONE WORK IN
SOUTHEASTERN MICHIGAN, ALL
OF THAT STUFF.
>> SO YOU KNOW, I HOPE I SOUND
LIKE I'M SERIOUS ABOUT IT
BECAUSE I AM BUT YOU KNOW,
UNTIL I CAN FIND A PLACE WE CAN
FIND A PLACE TO PUT THOSE HOLES
IN THE GROUND.
>> IT'S NOT A DONE DEAL.
I APPRECIATE YOU CONTINUING TO
LOOK.
I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT'S
ONE OF THE THINGS WE KNOW
THAT'S NOT IN THIS PLAN.
WE'LL SAY THEY HAD SOMETHING TO
DO WITH IT WAS THACKER'S
COMMENTS ABOUT THINGS THAT ARE
ON THE SITE PLANNED BIOSOCIAL
AROUP GETTING TO THAT
STORMWATER CALCULATION THAT TED
DID REQUIRED REQUIRED A GREEN
ROOF.
>> YEAH, WELL AND THIS IS WHERE
I KNEW THAT THE GREEN
ROOF
PORTION WAS PART OF THE
STORMWATER CALCULATION.
SOLAR IS NOT BUT SINCE IT'S
SHOWN MY IT'S REQUIRED NOW SO I
JUST WANTED TO VERIFY THAT
THAT'S THE CASE.
>> IT'S NOT TIED TO A STANDARD.
YEAH IT IS A SITE AMENITY OK.
I THINK OVERALL LIKE AGAIN
OTHER THAN CLARIFYING I'M
EXCITED ABOUT THIS.
THESE ARE THE THINGS WE CAN ASK
FOR AND I APPRECIATE THE
THOUGHT THAT'S GONE INTO IT.
>> THE ONE ADDITIONAL QUESTION
IT IS A NARROW RIGHT OF WAY I
HOW HAVE HOW HAVE YOU THOUGHT
ABOUT HOW CONSTRUCTION MIGHT
WORK JUST FOR NEIGHBORS EITHER
IN THE AUDIENCE OR LISTENING IN
BOTH FOR YOURS KIND OF LIKE THE
PEOPLE THAT NEED TO BE ON YOUR
SITE BUT ALSO LIKE IS THIS SO I
KNOW IT'S ON THE CONTRACTORS.
>> YEAH.
BEYOND THAT WE HAVE NOT HAD ANY
CONCRETE DISCUSSION NO PUN
INTENDED ABOUT HOW WE'RE GOING
TO GET HEAVY IRON IN THERE, HOW
IT'S GOING TO BE EXCAVATED AND
WHATNOT.
I DO KNOW THAT THE KINDS
OF CONVERSATIONS HE'S BEEN
HAVING HAVE BEEN WELL YOU KNOW,
WE HAVE X AMOUNT OF DIRT TO
MOVE BUT THAT'LL THAT'LL BE
PART OF THE FILL.
WE THINK WE CAN MAKE USE
OF THIS MATERIAL ON SITE SOME
OF THE FILL MATERIAL THAT WE
KNOW FROM THIS DUMP IS PROBABLY
GOING TO HAVE TO GO OFF SITE
JUST SPOIL BECAUSE IT'S DONE.
YOU KNOW, YOU CAN'T PUT STUFF
ON TOP OF IT.
IT'S NOT VERY SECURE AND YOU
KNOW, SO THAT'S WHAT I KNOW AND
I YOU KNOW, DO WE WANT TO BE
GOOD NEIGHBORS?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
WE DON'T WE DON'T WE DON'T WANT
YOU KNOW YOU KNOW WE DON'T WANT
BACKUP BEEPERS FOUR THIRTY IN
THE MORNING.
ALL THAT STUFF IS IMPORTANT.
OK, THANKS.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT,
THANK YOU.
THANKS FOR BRINGING THIS
PROJECT.
I THINK IT'S REALLY CLEAR THAT
YOU REALLY CARE ABOUT AND ARE
VERY FIT A LOT OF ATTENTION ON
HOW THE BEST WAY THE BEST WAY
TO DEVELOP THIS PROPERTY EACH
OF A FEW THINGS KIND OF PICKING
UP WHERE COMMISSIONER MILLS
LEFT OFF.
WHAT'S YOUR DO YOU HAVE A PLAN
FOR COMMUNICATION WITH THE
NEIGHBORS JUST TO KEEP THEM
INFORMED?
YOU MIGHT HAVE ALL THE ANSWERS
RIGHT NOW BUT YOU KNOW WE DON'T
HAVE A PLAN RIGHT NOW.
>> IS THAT IN YOUR IT SEEMS
LIKE AN IMPORTANT THING TO DO
AND ONE OF OUR ONE OF OUR
PARTNERS LISA, I THINK IS
INTERESTED IN AND LEADING THAT
EFFORT.
SO WE'LL TALK TO HER.
BUT I DON'T WANT TO MAKE
COMMITMENTS EITHER.
>> BUT IT'S GOING TO BE EVERY
WEEK.
YEAH.
KNOW AND I'M INVOLVED IN A
DEVELOPMENT PROPERTY IN TOWN
TOO.
AND WE INITIALLY WHEN
CONSTRUCTION STARTED WE WERE
COMMUNICATING THROUGH JUST
SENDING THEM AN EMAIL EVERY SO
OFTEN MAKING SURE THEY KNEW HOW
TO CONTACT US.
THEY CONTACTED US AND THERE WAS
BEEPING ON THE SITE BECAUSE
THEY THOUGHT IT WAS COMING FROM
US BUT TURNS OUT IT WAS
SOMEONE'S SHED NOT EVEN US BUT
JUST I THINK IT'S REALLY
HELPFUL AND PEOPLE KNOW WHO IT
WHO THEY CAN REACH OUT TO WHEN
THINGS ARE SCREENS APPARENTLY
WORK TO DETER BIRDS.
I DON'T KNOW.
THERE IS A LOT OF GLASS I DON'T
KNOW YOUR PLANS FOR SCREENS BUT
BIRDS OF GLASS I THINK IS
REALLY EXPENSIVE.
BUT I'VE BEEN TOLD BY A BIRDING
EXPERT SCREENS IF THERE ARE ANY
SCREENS THAT WORKS SO SO THE MY
LAST THING I THINK AND WE KNOW
WE CAN'T ASK FOR THIS.
WE KNOW THAT WE CAN'T ASK FOR
WE KNOW THAT IT IS NOT REQUIRED
BUT I THINK THERE'S REALLY
CONFUSING LANGUAGE IN THE STAFF
REPORT SAYING AND I THINK THIS
CAME FROM YOU GUYS LIKE IT'S
GOING TO HAVE FULL
ELECTRIFICATION AND NATURAL
GAS.
SO THAT'S NOT FULL
ELECTRIFICATION.
I JUST YOU KNOW, THERE'S A LINE
I THINK THAT WAS FROM YOU PER
THE APPLICANTS WHO ENCOURAGE
RESIDENTS TO MAKE THE SWITCH TO
ONE HUNDRED PERCENT
ELECTRIFICATION.
I'M NOT CLEAR HOW PUTTING IN
GAS AND ALLOWING THEM TO CHOOSE
GAS WOULD ENCOURAGE THEM TO
MAKE THE SWITCH TO 100 PERCENT
ELECTRIFICATION.
>> MAYBE THAT'S NOT WHAT YOU
MEANT.
OH, IT'S KIND OF LIKE IT WAS
SAYING OH, IT'S PROBABLY NOT
GETTING RECORDED VERY WELL,
ISN'T IT?
>> YOU KNOW, WE'RE THREADING
THE NEEDLE HERE AND TO MOVE
FORWARD WE NEED THAT BUYERS AND
I I'M THE YOU KNOW, PART OF THE
REASON THAT I TOLD YOU ABOUT
OUR BACKGROUND IS THAT WE'RE
NOT DEEP POCKETED DEVELOPERS.
SO I ALSO HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT
OUR COLLECTIVE COMMERCIAL
VENTURES LIKE NOT BLOW UP A
RETIREMENT ON A FAILED MODEL.
SO I GOING TO SAY THAT NINETY
SEVEN PERCENT IS BETTER THAN IN
THIS CASE IS BETTER THAN 100
PERCENT IN THE NINETY SEVEN
PERCENT REFERS TO THE GREENING
THE ENERGY USE OF THE THE OTHER
BIGGER BIGGER PICTURE ITEMS
WHICH I SUSPECT ISN'T WHAT YOU
WANT TO HEAR.
WOW.
I'M JUST SORT OF TELLING YOU
WHAT THE REALITY IS.
>> I APPRECIATE THAT.
I DO THINK THOUGH THAT AS
DEVELOPERS AND ESPECIALLY AS
SOMEONE WHO IS A
SELF-PROCLAIMED EXPERT IN
SUSTAINABILITY LIKE WE WE NEED
TO BE LEADING THE MARKET WITH
WHAT WE KNOW IS THE RIGHT THING
TO DO.
SO LIKE THERE IS THIS MISNOMER
OUT THERE THAT LIKE I HAVE TO
HAVE GAS COOKING IS BETTER WITH
GAS.
I THINK THE GAS LOBBY HAS
PUSHED THAT ON CONSUMERS.
I MEAN INDUCTION IS AMAZING.
I JUST THINK THAT OBVIOUSLY YOU
ARE GOING TO DO WHAT YOU CHOOSE
TO DO.
I JUST I WILL AND THEN I WILL
GET OFF MY SOAPBOX.
BUT I THINK WE NEED TO SET THE
EXAMPLE AND YOU PUT IN A
NATURAL GAS LINE AND IT'S
THERE.
YOU KNOW YOU PUT GAS IN ANY
OF THESE CONDOS LIKE THAT'S NOT
GOING TO GO AWAY.
SO AS YOU'RE GOING THROUGH THE
PROCESS, I WOULD JUST ENCOURAGE
YOU TAKE POLLS.
I MEAN I THINK LIKE INDUCTION
COOKED UP I'VE COME A LONG WAY
BOSCH IS MAKING GREAT ONES.
I DON'T THINK THAT IT'S GOING
TO TURN AWAY YOUR BUYERS IF YOU
DO LIKE DEMOS OF LIKE HOW GREAT
IT CAN BE SO THINK ABOUT IT.
OH, I APPRECIATE THOSE
THOUGHTS.
I DO.
BUT I KNOW I KNOW WHERE YOU'RE
COMING FROM AND WHY YOU'RE
SITTING THERE AND WHY YOU'RE
SAYING THIS.
>> SO I DON'T AND I UNDERSTAND
IT'S IT'S NOT NONE OF THIS IS
EASY.
SO I APPRECIATE EVERYTHING THAT
YOU'VE BEEN DOING.
I FEEL LIKE I'M BEING NIT PICKY
BUT I HAVE TO BE NIT PICKY AND
THANK YOU FOR INTRODUCING MORE
HOUSING INTO NO COMMISSIONER.
RIGHT.
OH, COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE.
SO LET'S SEE WHILE WE'RE ON
THAT TOPIC, I'M JUST GOING TO
SAY I THINK IT IS A BIT OF A
MISSED OPPORTUNITY TO SAY LOOK
AT OUR GREEN DEVELOPMENT.
HEY, RICH PEOPLE HAVE A LOT
CORNERSTONE INDUCTIONS OVER
FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLARS YOU CAN
I MEAN, YOU KNOW, I THINK THERE
ARE WAYS TO DO IT.
I UNDERSTAND YOUR POINT.
YOU DON'T WANT TO TURN AWAY A
BUYER BECAUSE THEY HAVE THEIR
WOLF GUEST.
THAT'S THEIR THING.
BUT I THINK THERE IS SOME IT IS
A LITTLE DISAPPOINTING.
SO YEAH, BIRD SAFE WINDOWS I
THINK THERE ARE THERE'S THE
DON'T WANT A TURKEY TO INSULATE
THEMSELVES TO THANKSGIVING
DINNER KIND OF BIRD SAFE AND
THEN THERE'S ALSO WINDOWS THAT
ARE SAFE FOR BIRDS AND I THINK
PROBABLY LOOKING INTO BOTH
OF THOSE WHICH ARE BECAUSE
AGAIN WITH ALL EXPANSE YOU
DON'T WANT YOU KNOW, A FLOCK
OF WARBLERS DEAD IN THE FRONT
LAWN.
YEAH.
NEW SIDEWALKS, GREAT BECAUSE I
THINK A SIDEWALK THERE IS GOING
TO BE WELL USED AND AND IS
GOING TO BE A REALLY GOOD
THING.
STORMWATER MITIGATION GOOD TAX
BASE FOR THE CITY IS GOOD.
WE HAVE I LIVE ACROSS FROM SOME
MILLION DOLLAR CONDOS AND THEY
TURN OVER PRETTY QUICKLY AND
THAT IS REALLY GOOD FOR THE
CITY.
I GOT TO SAY.
>> SO YOU KNOW, FOR WHAT IT'S
WORTH THERE'S SALES TECHNIQUE
FOR ME.
>> YEAH.
YOU KNOW I MEAN THEY WERE LOW
AND NOW THEY'RE HIGH END BUT
THE CITY'S GETTING A LOT
OF MONEY SO ONE OF THE
QUESTIONS I DID HAVE AND THIS
IS MAYBE TO STAFF THE NOTE THAT
WE HAVE SAID THAT NEIGHBORS
DON'T RECALL RECEIVING THE
POSTCARD AND I JUST WANTED TO
MAKE SURE THAT THAT THAT WAS
ALL TAKEN CARE OF .
I MEAN I I KNOW THAT THAT'S SO
SO CITY THAT PROVIDES THE
ADDRESSES OF EVERYONE THAT THE
POSTCARD NOTICES ARE REQUIRED
TO GO TO TO THE DEVELOPMENT
TEAM AND A TEMPLATE AND WE WE
APPROVE THE POSTCARD THAT GOES
OUT AND THAT'S PRETTY MUCH
WHERE OUR INFLUENCE STOPS.
THEY TOLD US IN WRITING THAT
THEY SENT THEM OUT.
I CAN'T GUARANTEE THAT THE THE
POST OFFICE DELIVERED THEM ALL.
YOU KNOW, IT'S I DON'T KNOW THE
ANSWER TO THAT.
>> OK, THIS IS THE GUY WHO DID
IT.
I DO THAT GUY I DID THE POST
OFFICE DELIVER EVERYTHING WE
GOT OURS FOR ONE SIX LONGSHORE
NO BUT YOU SEND THEM YEAH
ABSOLUTELY FINE.
AND THEN LET'S SEE OH THE
CONSTRUCTION PROCESS I DO LIVE
IN A PLACE THAT HAS A LOT
OF CONSTRUCTION AND I THINK
JUST HAVING A PHONE NUMBER OR A
TEXT NUMBER FOR THE NEIGHBORS
FOR CONSTRUCTION MANAGER OR
WILL SAVE BOTH YOU AND THE
NEIGHBORS A LOT OF HASSLE
BECAUSE THAT GOES BOTH WAYS IF
SOMEBODY IS MESSING WITH YOUR
SITE YOU WANT PEOPLE TO BE ABLE
TO CONTACT YOU AND YOU KNOW
VICE BECAUSE YOU ARE A RESIDENT
ON THIS SITE TOO I THINK THAT
MAKES A HUGE DIFFERENCE.
IT MAKES A HUGE DIFFERENCE.
>> SO IT'S REALLY THAT'S REALLY
SO I THINK JUST HAVING AND WE
HAD SOME CONVERSATIONS WITH
SOME OF THE SITES NEAR US AND
IT DID END UP BEING SORT OF A
WIN WIN SITUATION.
YES.
THERE'S THE BEEPING EARLY IN
THE MORNING BUT THERE'S ALSO
LIKE HEY, YOU'RE YOU KNOW, YOUR
DIGGER IS SINKING INTO THE MUD
AND MAYBE YOU WANT TO DEAL WITH
THAT SOMETIMES IT'S NOT SO JUST
YEAH, I THINK JUST HAVING A
CONTACT NUMBER FOR THAT IS LIKE
FOR A CONSTRUCTION MANAGER OR
SOMEBODY WHO CAN ACTUALLY DO
SOMETHING IS SUPER HELPFUL.
AND OTHER THAN THAT I THINK
MOST OF THE OTHER THINGS HAVE
BEEN COVERED .
OBVIOUSLY YOU SEEM TO THINK YOU
HAVE A MARKET FOR THESE SO
HOPEFULLY.
ALL RIGHT, COMMISSIONER, WHICH
THANKS THANKS FOR BRINGING THE
PROJECT.
CAN WE BRING UP THE SITE PLAN?
I'M LOOKING SPECIFICALLY AT THE
ONE THAT WAS IN OUR PACKET UH
DATED TWENTY TWENTY FOUR TO
TWENTY EIGHT AND I'M LOOKING AT
WHAT APPEARS TO BE PAGE TWENTY
THREE WHICH SHOWS THE GARAGE
RIGHT THERE I CAN'T SEE SORRY I
HAVE A SCREEN IN FRONT OF ME
THAT IS NOT WHAT I SEE.
JUST GIVE ME ONE MORE QUICK
QUESTION.
WHY SHOULD I HELP WITH THAT.
IT DOESN'T LOOK TOO
YOU CAN IT
.
SO IT'S IT'S STARTING TO LOOK
LIKE WHAT YOU WANT TO SEE OR DO
YOU WANT TO SEE THE GARAGE YOU
SEE THE GARAGE PLAN IT'S PAGE
TWENTY THREE.
SO SHOULD I PUT A PLANNER KELLY
JUST DID WAS BRING UP THE ONE
THAT WE HAVE IN OUR PACKET SO
THAT WE'RE LOOKING AT THE SAME
ONE OK YES IT'S THIS ONE.
>> SO HOW ARE THEY ABLE TO ZOOM
UH SURE.
FROM THE JOB
I
CONTROL AND I
WAS GOING TO SAY HOW MANY
ENGINEERS DOES IT TAKE TO USE
THE DHOBI THIS TOUCH SCREEN I
COULD JUST DO THIS THIS THREE
PANTHERIS OH DO THAT SO THAT'S
WHAT I'M WHAT I'M SEEING LOOKS
LIKE THERE'S A WALL WELL BEFORE
IT WENT AWAY.
GREAT.
THEY'RE ON THE NORTH PART
OF THIS DRAWING AS YOU COME IN
FROM LONG SHORE THERE SEEMS TO
BE A WALL THAT'S BLOCKING THE
GARAGE THERE AND THERE'S A WALL
THAT SEEMS TO BE BLOCKING THE
END OF THAT AND THE MATERIALS
CHANGING ON THIS.
SO IT LOOKS LIKE IT'S A
DRIVEWAY.
WE WEREN'T SURE OR RATHER I
WASN'T SURE WHETHER THIS IS
OVERHEAD OR CAN YOU JUST
UNDERSTAND HOW SOMEONE WOULD
ACCESS THAT IS IS MY CURSOR THE
RIGHT SPOT?
ARE YOU I DON'T I CAN'T SEE
THERE.
GOTCHA.
SO THE THE DASH THE DASH LINES
SO NOW MOVE TO THE RIGHT NO GO
BACK UP TO THE RIGHT.
YES COME DOWN STOP RIGHT THERE.
SO YOU SEE THAT SOLID.
YEP.
SO OUT IT'S KIND OF A NUMBER
OF THINGS GOING ON HERE SO
THANK YOU BECAUSE I COULDN'T
UNDERSTAND AND I ASKED TWO
ARCHITECTS JUST HELP ME WITH IT
AND THEY COULDN'T UNDERSTAND IT
EITHER.
YEAH.
SO THIS THIS HATCHING RIGHT
HERE THIS CONCRETE IMAGINE THAT
JUST AS AN EXTENSION OF THE
ALIGNMENT OF THE DRIVEWAY.
SO THAT'S KIND OF ACCURATE AS
YOU ENTER AND THE GARAGE LEVEL
AND I KNOW YOU SAID NOT THE
DASH LINE WORK BUT I'M JUST
GOING TO KIND OF CLARIFY WHAT
THAT IS.
SO THAT REPRESENTS THE THE
FOUNDATION WALLS OF THE
BUILDING.
SO WE'RE JUST SHOWING IT WAS ON
A NUMBER OF PLANS TO MAKE SURE
THAT THAT'S EVIDENT EVERYWHERE
,ESPECIALLY CLOSE TO THE
EASEMENT AND THEN SO THIS LINE
RIGHT HERE IS REALLY JUST THE
LIMIT OF WHERE THIS CURVING AND
THE DRIVE ENTERS THE GARAGE
AREA WHERE THAT STOPS ON THE
NORTH SIDE OF THAT THERE'S
THERE'S AN EXIT MAIN DOOR
PERSON DOOR THAT COMES OUT TO
KIND OF A CONCRETE SIDEWALK AND
ENDS UP GOING UP TO THE PUBLIC
SIDEWALK BELOW THIS BALCONY NO
DOUBT WHERE WE ROLL OUR CURB
CARTS FOR COMPOST THE THE DASH
LINES REPRESENT I GET IN AND
OUT OF THE GAS LINES.
I APPRECIATE THAT'S WHERE YOU
WOULD ENTER THE GARAGE AT.
RIGHT.
BUT SO IF YOU KEEP YOUR CURSOR
RIGHT WHERE IT IS STOPPING
THERE SO THAT YOU HAVE THAT
SOLID LINE THAT'S COMING AROUND
SO IS THAT JUST A DEMARCATION
THAT IT'S A DIFFERENT MATERIAL
FROM THE DRIVE OR IS THAT
ACTUALLY BLOCKING ACCESS TO
THERE WOULD BE AN ELEVATION
SEPARATION BETWEEN WHERE THE
DRIVE OF THE VEHICULAR USE IS
AND THEN THE NEXT LEVEL WHERE
THE DOOR EXITING THE THE LOWER
LEVEL IS OK?
NOT NOT A HUGE ELEVATION
SEPARATION BUT THERE'S IT'S NOT
JUST DEMARCATION BUT THERE IS
GOING TO BE SOME TYPE OF A
BARRIER THERE FOR VEHICLE AND
DIRECTING VEHICLES INTO THE
GARAGE AND IT'S IT'S MIRRORED
AT THE END THE LONG SHORT ROAD
SLIPS AWAY.
SO THE FIRST FLOOR IS BASICALLY
AT GRADE AT THE EAST END BUT
THE GARAGE IS AT GRADE AT THE
WEST END.
SO I THINK I'M JUST TRYING TO
MAKE SURE THAT THIS IS NOT
GOING TO BLOCK ACCESS HERE
BECAUSE ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
WE WERE DEALING WITH WITH
ANOTHER DEVELOPER THAT WAS ON A
WAS IT MADE IT HARD FOR SOMEONE
WHO MIGHT NEED ASSISTANCE TO
MAKE USE OF THIS ACCESS AND
THEY HAD A VERY SIMILAR SETUP
LIKE YOU DID AN UNDERGRAD
UNDERGROUND GARAGE WITH
ELEVATORS THAT WENT RIGHT TO
RESIDENCES.
AND WHAT WE DISCOVERED WAS A
SOMEONE COMING INTO THE
BUILDING THAT NEEDED
ACCESSIBILITY HELP WOULD NOT BE
ABLE TO ENTER THE BUILDING
UNLESS THEY ENTERED THE
BUILDING THROUGH SOMEONE'S
PRIVATE GARAGE AND THEN THEY
MIGHT NOT BE ABLE TO GET TO
WHERE THEY WANT IT TO GO
BECAUSE THE DEVELOPER HADN'T
CREATED A MEANS FOR THAT TO
OCCUR.
SO MY QUESTION IS TRYING TO
ENSURE THAT WE'RE NOT CREATING
AN ENVIRONMENT WHERE WE ARE
MAKING IT IMPOSSIBLE FOR
SOMEONE WHO REQUIRES AID TO
ENTER AND EXIT THE BUILDING
UNLESS THEY ARE COMING THROUGH
SOMEONE'S PRIVATE GARAGE WHICH
WOULD THEN PRECLUDE THEM FROM
GETTING TO WHERE THEY NEEDED TO
GO IF THEY WERE IN THESE TWO
SPOTS WHERE WE CAN JUST FLIP
BACK TO THE OTHER PRESENTATION
REAL QUICK.
SURE.
AND SHOW THE FIRST THE THE
WHICH ONE IS IT?
YES, BUT THE TASKBAR AT THE
BOTTOM OVER OVER THE TASKBAR
THEY WERE ON THE READER.
>> SO IF WE JUST GO UP TO THE
FIRST FLOOR, YOU KNOW, IT'S A
LITTLE BIT MISNOMER SINCE WE'RE
BUILT INTO THIS AND THERE'S
ABOUT TEN FEET OF FALL TEN OR
TWELVE FEET OF FALL I BELIEVE
FROM THE EAST TO THE WEST ON
THE SITE THERE'S THREE WELL
THERE'S TWO GREAT ENTRIES.
THERE'S ONE FROM THE EAST.
THERE'S A SIDEWALK THAT COMES
IN BETWEEN THE TWO BUILDINGS AS
AN ACCURATE ENTRANCE TO THIS
OPEN AIR CONCOURSE THAT FEEDS
THE UNITS FROM THAT LEVEL AND
THEN THERE'S A RAMP AND STAIRS
THAT DIRECTLY ADDRESS THE
STREET TO THE NORTH FOR THOSE
ACCESS POINTS.
GOOD.
THANK YOU FOR THAT BECAUSE I
WAS HAVING A PROBLEM LOOKING AT
THE PLANTS AND GETTING THAT
QUESTION ANSWERED.
I DO WANT TO COME BACK TO THE
CONSTRUCTION.
I KNOW AT LEAST TWO
COMMISSIONERS HAVE ALREADY
ASKED YOU ABOUT IT BUT I WORK
ACROSS FROM THE SITE THAT
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT IS
INVOLVED IN AND THERE ARE LOTS
OF PROBLEMS I WE LOST A TREE IN
OUR EASEMENT AND WE'RE NOT
QUITE SURE WHO TOOK THE TREE
OUT.
SO ONE I REALLY DO THINK IT'S
IMPORTANT WHEN CONSTRUCTION
GETS STARTED WHOEVER IS
MANAGING YOUR SITE REACH OUT TO
YOUR NEIGHBORS.
IT SOUNDS LIKE THERE IS A CONDO
ADMINISTRATOR ASSOCIATIONS THAT
MIGHT BE AN EASY PATHWAY AS
WELL AS TO THE APARTMENTS THAT
GO DOWN ON LONG SHORE BECAUSE
PEOPLE WILL WANT TO KNOW WHAT'S
GOING TO HAPPEN WHEN YOU'RE
DOING YOUR UTILITY WORK.
I THINK IT WOULD BE SUPER
HELPFUL TO LET THE NEIGHBORS
KNOW THAT THAT UTILITY WORK IS
COMING AND WHAT IMPACTS IT'S
GOING TO HAVE ON THEM.
SO WE LOST WATER TWO DAYS THE
FIRST DAY THE CITY TOLD US THE
SECOND DAY THAT THE CONTRACTOR
DID AND JUST CAME OVER AND JUST
SAID HEY, HERE'S WHAT'S GOING
TO HAPPEN.
HERE'S HOW LONG YOU LOSE WATER.
HERE'S WHAT YOU WANT TO DO WITH
YOUR YOUR TOILETS AND YOUR
PIPING AND IT'S JUST A SMALL
LITTLE NEIGHBORLY THING BECAUSE
I THINK YOUR NEIGHBORS ARE VERY
CONCERNED AND RIGHTLY SO ABOUT
THE DEVELOPMENT AND HOW THAT'S
GOING TO GO BECAUSE IT'S CHANGE
IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD THAT IS A
VERY TIGHT CORRIDOR AND I THINK
SOME ADDITIONAL CONSIDERATION
SHOULD BE GIVEN TO TO LUKE'S
COMMENTS THAT SHE MADE EARLIER
ABOUT HOW ARE YOU GOING TO MOVE
ALL THOSE HEAVY EQUIPMENTS SO
OUR PROPERTY SITS ACROSS FROM
THE DEVELOPMENT THAT'S
HAPPENING ON AND SO THEY'RE
MOVING HUGE MACHINES INTO OUR
PARKING LOT JUST TO TURN THINGS
AROUND.
THEY HAVE TO MOVE SO MUCH DIRT
THOSE TRUCKS LINE UP.
THEY BLOCK THE STREET FOR HOURS
.
PEOPLE DON'T KNOW WHAT TO DO
AND SO JUST ANTICIPATING THAT I
THINK IS IS WORTH THE WHILE TO
BE A GOOD NEIGHBOR FOR THEM AS
WELL AS CAPTURING THE DIRT THAT
IS GOING TO GO ON THE ROAD.
SO I BIKE IN THAT AREA THE LONG
SHORE DRIVE IS GOING TO GET
FILLED WITH DEBRIS.
IT IS JUST GOING TO HAPPEN.
AND SO HOW DO YOU PLAN TO MAKE
THAT SAFE FOR BIKERS LIKE
MYSELF OR WHEN I'M BIKING WITH
MY KID WHO MAY NOT HAVE THE
SAME KIND OF CONTROL THAT I DO.
SO THOSE KINDS OF THINGS ARE
IMPORTANT AND IT IT IT REALLY
WOULD BE I THINK IN THE
DEVELOPMENTS BEST INTERESTS TO
ADDRESS THOSE AND HAVE A SOLID
PLAN FOR HOW WE'RE HOW YOU PLAN
TO COMMUNICATE WITH THE
NEIGHBORS ABOUT THAT.
SO THANKS.
OK, MR. GARBER ASKED SOMETHING
WHAT DID MR. GARBER ASK THAT I
WANT TO ASK YOU ABOUT YOU I
MEAN WHAT WAS IT YOU ARE
MODELING?
YEAH, IT WAS OH NO PASSIVE
HOUSING.
>> WHY NOT PASSIVE HOUSING?
THAT'S WHAT I HAVEN'T GOT THERE
YET.
I HAVEN'T GOT THERE.
CAN YOU JUST SAY MORE I MEAN I
THINK YOU KNOW WHAT IT MEANS SO
I THINK I KNOW WHAT YOU MEAN
BUT THERE ARE PEOPLE WHO ARE
HERE WHO MAY NOT KNOW WHAT YOU
MEAN WHEN YOU SAY THAT SO THAT
THAT COMMENT WHILE LIVE IS A
SUFFICIENT ANSWER.
IT IS NOT A COMPLETE ANSWER.
OK, SO LET'S START WITH THE BIG
PICTURE.
WE WANT TO HAVE THE MOST ENERGY
EFFICIENT BUILDING POSSIBLE
GIVEN THE DESIGN THAT WE'RE
PURSUING, GIVEN THE SELECTION
MATERIALS.
BUT THE IDEA IS DO WE CHOOSE TO
USE ANY NUMBER OF A HALF A
DOZEN STANDARD THAT ALLOWS
JUDGMENT OF THAT IN A SEMILLAS
EFFECTIVE MANNER RIGHT.
I PERSONALLY HAVE NEVER FOUND
VALUE AND WE MADE THIS CHOICE
FOR THE LIBRARIES WHEN WE BUILT
THEM YEARS AGO TO SPEND THE
EXTRA SIX FIGURES USUALLY FOR
THE ACTUAL CERTIFICATE OF A
BUILDING SAY TO A LEAD STANDARD
WE DID IN SOME OF THE BUILDINGS
THAT I DO DO AN ENERGY STAR SET
OF TESTS YOU KNOW BLOWER BLOWER
DOORS VALUATION OF THE CROSS
SECTIONS.
I WENT OUT AND IT TURNED OUT
THAT IT WAS VERY YOU KNOW,
ENERGY STAR COMPLIANT IS HOW WE
DESCRIBED IT.
WE DID NOT WE DID NOT PURSUE
THE CERTIFICATION.
I WOULD IMAGINE WE'LL CONTINUE
TO DO THE SAME THING WITH OUR
MECHANICAL CONTRACTOR WHO YOU
KNOW, THAT'S THEY'RE
RESPONSIBLE AND IT SORT OF GETS
TO THIS SUBJECT THAT WE TALKED
ABOUT EARLIER WHICH IS HE
GAINED AS YOU CAN TELL EXCEPT
ON TOP TOP FLOOR THERE'S
THERE'S THERE'S QUITE A BIT
OF OVERHANG.
>> SO THERE'S POTENTIAL FOR FOR
YOU KNOW, WINTER SUNLIGHT,
SOLAR GAIN, SUMMER SHADE KINDS
OF PASSIVE DESIGNS STRUCTURES
BUT YOU KNOW, GOING FOR A
TOTALLY PASSIVE HOUSE WHERE
EFFECTIVELY IT'S SO WELL
INSULATED THAT YOU'RE HEATING
IT WITH THE EQUIVALENT OF YOUR
REFRIGERATOR COMPRESSOR MOTORS
OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT THAT
THAT'S NOT A GOAL WE'RE
PURSUING AT THIS SPECIFICALLY.
YEAH, OBVIOUSLY A YOU KNOW, THE
GOOD NEWS IS LIGHTING WISE AND
THINGS LIKE THAT TECHNOLOGY IS
IT'S MUCH EASIER TO SEE, YOU
KNOW, LED LIGHTS 20 PERCENT
OF THE ENERGY USE MUCH MORE
ATTRACTIVE THAN COMPACT
FLUORESCENTS.
I MEAN THOSE KINDS OF THINGS
ARE I THINK GOING TO BE VERY
JUST SORT OF YOU KNOW, THIS IS
WHAT THE SPECIFICATION BUT BUT
THERE'S NO PLANS RIGHT NOW FOR
SPECIFIC CERTIFICATION AND THEN
I DIDN'T SEE HOW YOU PLAN TO
DEAL WITH DELIVERIES AT THE
SITE.
SO AMAZON U.P.S., FEDEX OR ARE
THEY GOING TO HAVE A PARALLEL
PARK ON LONGSHORE AND BLOCK?
YEAH, THERE'S THERE'S SPACE
CARREFOUR ON THE FIRST FLOOR
AGAIN NOT ON THIS DRAWING FOR A
MAIL AND PACKAGE ROOM FOR THOSE
TO BE WALKED UP TO THAT AREA.
THERE'S OBVIOUSLY DROP OFF
AREAS FOR THE OFFICE ALREADY IN
THE OFFICE PARKING LOT SEVEN
WILL AMAZON KNOW THAT THEY CAN
PARK IN THE OFFICE PARKING LOT
AND THAT THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE
TO WALK OVER?
I THINK THE AMAZON FIGURES
THOSE THINGS OUT WHICH IS I'LL
TELL YOU HOW THEY FIGURE IT
OUT.
THEY PARK IN THE STREET, THEY
DO IT AND THEN THEY BLOCK THE
STREET GIVING A BLOCK ACCESS TO
YOUR NEIGHBORS BECAUSE THEY'RE
NOT YOU HAVE A DRIVEWAY THAT'S
ACROSS THE STREET FROM YOUR
SITE AND SO THE PARKING LOT TO
MY CONDOMINIUM.
SO I MEAN THEY THERE'S NO SORT
OF ENTRY UNLESS YOU'RE GOING TO
ALLOW THEM ACCESS DOWN YOUR
DRIVEWAY AND ALLOW THEM TO TURN
AROUND.
THAT'S WHAT THEY'RE GOING TO DO
IF YOU DON'T DESIGN A PLACE FOR
THEM THAT'S GOOD GOOD FEEDBACK
THERE ANY OTHER COMMENTS
QUESTIONS?
UM, I DON'T HAVE A LOT TO ADD
THAT HASN'T ALREADY SAID I MEAN
I THINK I AGREE WITH BOTH AN
APPRECIATION OF THE PROJECT AND
ALSO SOME DISAPPOINTMENT ABOUT
SOME OF THE COMMITMENTS TO
CERTAIN SUSTAINABILITY
FEATURES.
SO WE WILL CROSS OUR FINGERS
AND HOPE FOR THE BEST.
ONE QUESTION I HAVE JUST MAYBE
MORE DIRECTED AT CITY STAFF IS
THAT ALL OF THIS CONVERSATION
AROUND CONSTRUCTION IS MAKING
ME THINK THAT CHICAGO CASCADE
SEASON IS ALSO PEAK
CONSTRUCTION SEASON AND I CAN
IMAGINE THERE BEING ACTUALLY NO
ACCESS TO THE CASCADES OR THE
LIMITED ACCESS TO THE CASCADES
PARKING LOT AT CERTAIN POINTS
AND JUST HOW THAT JUST PUTTING
IT ON THE RADAR I GUESS I DON'T
EVEN KNOW HOW THAT GETS
NEGOTIATED.
I GUESS YOU APPLY FOR CERTAIN
PERMITS TO BLOCK THE STREET BUT
WHAT A MESS.
SO THERE'S THAT PAD AND THEN I
THINK ALL MY OTHER COMMENTS
HAVE ALREADY BEEN TAKEN UP
AROUND SUSTAINABILITY IN THE US
CONNECTION, ET CETERA.
SO WITH THAT ANY FINAL COMMENTS
QUESTIONS?
I GUESS ONE OTHER THING IS THAT
THERE IS SOME INDICATION FROM
THE PETITIONER THAT THEY WERE
GOING TO WANT TO MAKE
MODIFICATIONS TO THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT BETWEEN
NOW AND WHEN IT GOES TO CITY
COUNCIL.
>> IS THAT SOMETHING WE NEED TO
WORRY ABOUT OR NOT TAKE UP?
THAT'S PRETTY TYPICAL.
IT HASN'T EVEN GONE THROUGH
WITH THE CITY ATTORNEY'S OFFICE
YET.
OK, SO CHANGES WILL BE MADE AND
THE DEVELOPERS WILL HAVE THEIR
INPUT INTO IT AS WELL.
>> OK, SO WE ARE SIMPLY VOTING
TO RECOMMEND OR NOT RECOMMEND
IT AS IT AS IT IS PRESENTED TO
US TODAY BEFORE US TODAY.
GOT IT.
EVERYONE'S CLEAR ON THAT.
OK, I THINK THEN WE ARE READY
FOR A ROLL CALL VOTE AND YOU
CAN HAVE A SEAT IF YOU WANT YOU
DON'T HAVE TO DO THAT.
THANK YOU
COMMISSIONER EVANS.
>> YES COMMISSIONER WHORISH.
YES.
MR. HAMMERSCHMIDT.
YES, COUNCILMAN BRITISH YES.
COMMISSIONER CLARK.
YES.
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE.
YES.
THAT CARRIES ALL RIGHT.
>> WITH THAT WE ARE MOVING ON
TO ITEM NINE A OUR ONLY ITEM
OF REGULAR BUSINESS FOR THE
EVENING IS FOR SEVEN HUNDRED
SHOPPING STREET A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE FOR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVAL, A PROPOSAL
TO REESTABLISH A MARIJUANA
RETAILER IN THE EXISTING
BUILDING AT SEVEN HUNDRED
TAPPIN THE PREVIOUS MARIJUANA
RETAILER CLOSED IN JANUARY
TWENTY TWENTY THREE NO EXTERIOR
SITE IMPROVEMENTS ARE PROPOSED
AND THE STAFF RECOMMENDATION IS
APPROVAL AND WE WILL BEGIN WITH
A TEN MINUTE PETITION A
PRESENTATION WELCOME.
IF THE CHAIR WOULD JUST
ENTERTAIN A SHORT BREAK TO UP
THE PRESENTATION I WILL
ENTERTAIN.
>> DO YOU THINK WE SHOULD
BREAK, BREAK OR JUST PAUSE?
ACTUALLY IF WE COULD HAVE FIVE
MINUTES I WOULD APPRECIATE IT.
I THINK WE WOULD TAKE A FIVE
MINUTE BREAK AND RECONVENE AT
EIGHT FORTY ONE.
THANK
.
>> WE ARE RESUMING FROM BREAK
AND WE ARE GOING TO HEAR A
PARTICULAR PRESENTATION
REGARDING SEVEN HUNDRED TOP END
STREET SPECIAL EXCEPTION FOR
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVAL.
>> THANK YOU.
MY NAME'S JOSH.
I WORK WITH METCALF AND I'LL BE
PRESENTING HERE TODAY WE ARE
LOOKING TO REMOVE THE SPECIAL
USE THAT IS FOR 700 TABIN
AVENUE.
WE'RE ASKING TO HAVE A RHEBA
MARIJUANA RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT
FOR ADULTS OVER TWENTY ONE.
WE STARTED OUR FIRST STORE IN
TWENTY NINETEEN.
WE'RE APPROACHING OUR FIFTH
YEAR OF HAVING A CANNABIS
RETAIL SHOP AND THIS WILL ARE
SIX SHOP HERE IN THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN.
WE HAVE THEM IN ALPINA
SHEBOYGAN, OLE MANISTEE AND
ROGERS CITY.
WE STARTED LEASING THE PROPERTY
AT SEVEN HUNDRED HAPPEN ON MAY
TWENTY SEVENTH OF TWENTY TWENTY
THREE.
OUR LEASE IS SET FOR THREE AND
A HALF YEARS AND IT'S AS YOU
MAY KNOW SEVEN HUNDRED TAPPAN'S
RIGHT ACROSS FROM THE MICHIGAN
CAMPUS AREA NEXT DOOR TO KASSER
DOMINIK'S AND BEFORE IT WAS THE
GREEN PLANET WHICH HAD
PREVIOUSLY BEEN APPROVED AS A
MARIJUANA RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT.
IT HAD A CONDITIONAL APPROVAL
BASED ON THE SITE PLAN AND WE
HAVE SINCE BECOME TENANTS IN
THE BUILDING AND ARE SEEKING TO
RENEW OR AMEND THE EXISTING
SPECIAL USE TO THE NEXT ONE.
WE DID SO AND WE DID HAVE THE
PUBLIC MEETING THAT WE SENT OUT
THE POSTCARDS.
THERE'S A COPY OF THE POSTCARD
WE SENT OUT.
WE DIDN'T GET ANY RESPONSES THE
DAY OF THE MEETING BUT WE DID
RECEIVE A CALL THE DAY AFTER
THE MEETING FROM A TENANT.
HER NAME IS PAT ANDERSON.
I BELIEVE SHE'S ON ZUNE TODAY
AND SHE COULD BE AVAILABLE WITH
QUESTIONS IF NEEDED.
BUT SHE WAS THE TENTH TENANT
THAT LIVES IN THE SAME AREA AND
USES A PARKING SPOT THAT WAS
SOMEWHAT IN CONTENTION BEFORE
OUR ORIGINAL CONDITIONAL
SPECIAL USE REQUIRED US TO
REMOVE A CURB CUT.
THAT IS WHERE MISS ANDERSON
PARKS SHE PARKS AND LIVES AS A
TENANT IN A BUILDING THAT IS
NOT IT'S NOT PART OF OUR
ESTABLISHMENT BUT IT IS PART
OF THAT SAME DISTRICT THERE AND
SHE STATED THAT SHE WANTS TO US
TO BE THERE.
SHE LIKES IT WHEN THAT BUILDING
IS OCCUPIED IT'S A BETTER
EXPERIENCE FOR HER AND WE
INDICATED TO HER THAT WE HAVE
NO PLANS TO USE THAT EXISTING
PARKING SPOT THAT THAT'S FOR
HER USE ONLY.
AND IF YOU NOTICE WHEN WE DID
THE SITE PLAN ON THE
COVER SHEET, WE HAVE CHANGED IT
SINCE THE ADDITION THE ORIGINAL
COVER SHEET ORIGINALLY IT
STATED THEY WERE UP TO FIVE
PARKING SPOTS THAT COULD BE
USED BY METS CAFE AND THAT WAS
AMENDED ON THE COVER SHEET WHEN
WE REDID OUR NEW SUBMISSION TO
STATE THAT IT WOULD IT WOULD BE
THREE SPOTS AND THOSE THREE
SPOTS ARE SPOTS IN A PARKING
LOT THAT'S FROM OUR LANDLORD
THAT LEASES TO US AND DOES NOT
INCLUDE THE PARKING SPOT I
WOULD SAY BEHIND US.
THE OTHER POINT OF CONTENTION
ORIGINALLY WAS THE ASPHALT THAT
WAS ALONGSIDE THE BUILDING
ALONG SIDE MONROE STREET THAT
HAD WE HAVE SUBSEQUENTLY
REMOVED AND THIS KIND OF GOES
INTO THAT AS PART OF US MOVING
IN THERE WAS THIS ASPHALT THAT
WAS THAT THERE WAS AN ISSUE AND
NEEDED TO BE REMOVED AND YOU
CAN SEE IT WAS A NON PERMEABLE
SURFACE ASPHALT THAT COULD HAVE
POTENTIALLY ALSO BEEN USED AS
PARKING.
AND SO WE HAVE SINCE REPLACED
THE NON PERMEABLE SURFACE WITH
THE PERMEABLE SURFACE, THE
PAVERS WE PULLED ALL THE PROPER
PERMITS.
IT HAD A SOIL ENGINEER ENSURE
OUR COMPLIANCE WITH THE
REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS THEN
WE ALSO WENT AHEAD AND PUT A
BARRIER A PARKING BARRIER IN
PLACE OVERTOP THE PAVERS AND
THAT THAT'S I THINK IT'S
APPROXIMATELY EIGHT FEET LONG,
SEVERAL FEET TALL.
IT'S FILLED WITH DIRT AND I
HAVE KIND OF GOOD NEWS .
WE HAVE PLANTS IN THERE NOW
RIGHT THERE WHEN YOU SEE THE
PICTURE THERE'S NO PLANTS.
>> IT KIND OF DOESN'T LOOK
SUPER, SUPER GREAT.
BUT THAT WAS ALSO TAKEN A WHILE
BACK WITH THE WEATHER.
WE SUBSEQUENTLY HAVE PUT PLANTS
IN THERE AND WE NOW HAVE SOME
NICE SPRING PLANTS AND FLOWERS
THAT ARE IN THE PLANTER.
>> WE ALSO HAVE A SIGN THAT'S
PLACED INDICATING THAT IT'S A
TOW AWAY ZONE.
>> WE HAVE ALSO ADDED TWO
ADDITIONAL SIGNS ALONG THAT
SAME WALL.
YOU CAN'T SEE THEM IN THE
PICTURE AND THEY'VE BEEN PLACED
AT THE SAME TIME WE PUT THE THE
PLANTS IN AND THOSE ARE TWO NEW
ALSO NO PARKING AND TOW AWAY
ZONE SIGNS THAT ARE ALONG THE
STREET THERE MONROE ALONG THE
ASPHALT AND SO REALLY THAT'S
THE PRESENTATION PRETTY SHORT
AND SWEET.
WE'RE REALLY JUST ASKING TO
AMEND WHAT WAS ALREADY APPROVED
CONDITIONALLY WITH THE
EXCEPTION OF THAT ONE REMAINING
CURBSIDE.
>> NOW AGAIN, THAT'S NOT FOR US
TO USE WE HAVE NO INTENTIONS
OF USING MISS ANDERSON USES IT
AND I BELIEVE THAT THAT HAS
BEEN ADDRESSED AFTER THE
CONDITIONAL APPROVAL OF THE
SPECIAL USE AND I BELIEVE THAT
WAS APPROVED BY CITY COUNCIL.
THAT WAS BEFORE MY TIME.
BUT I'M I'M UNDER THE
UNDERSTANDING THAT THAT PARKING
SPOT HAS SINCE BEEN APPROVED.
MISS ANDERSON CAN USE THAT SPOT
AND AGAIN THAT THAT'S NOTHING
FOR NO PLANS OF OURS TO USE
THAT IN ANY WAY.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU FOR THE PRESENTATION.
ALL RIGHT, MR. KOWALSKI, STAFF
PRESENTATION.
>> YES, GOOD EVENING,
EVERYBODY.
LET ME BRING UP MY PRESENTATION
HERE IS YOUR MICROPHONE ON MR.
KOWALSKI?
>> YEP.
OK, WELL MAYBE THAT ONE'S
BETTER.
OK, I'M DOUBLE MIKED.
OK NOW HOPEFULLY EVERYBODY CAN
HEAR ME OK HOPEFULLY WE'VE GOT
SET UP THIS YEAR.
YEAH UM I SELECTED SHARE
SCREEN.
>> YEAH JUST GIVE US ONE
MOMENT.
THERE'S A THING WHERE YOU SHARE
TWO PRESENTATIONS AT A TIME AND
I DON'T KNOW HOW BUT IT EXISTS
.
THANK YOU.
OUR TECH IT'S LIKE UH
YOU KNOW
WHEN YOU GO OUT OH WELL SORRY
IT'S GOING WELL THE TECHNO HERE
.
HMM.
OK AGAIN
OK YEAH BUT THERE YOU
GO.
OH I'M TRYING TO GET FULL
SCREEN YOU'RE QUITE THERE BUT
GIVE ONCE AGAIN OK WE'RE OK.
>> YEAH ALL RIGHT THANK YOU.
SORRY ABOUT THAT OK.
SEVEN HUNDRED TAPPAN'S SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE AGAIN WHAT'S
BEFORE YOU TODAY HERE IS A
MODIFICATION TO THE EXISTING
THE ALREADY APPROVED SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE.
I'M GOING TO GO KIND OF QUICKLY
THROUGH SOME BACKGROUND HERE.
I THINK EVERYBODY'S FAMILIAR
WHERE THE SITE IS.
I JUST WANTED TO GET A ZOOM OUT
OF AN AREA TO GIVE YOU AN
OVERALL
PICTURE AGAIN TO
UNDERSTAND THE LAND USES THAT
ARE SURROUNDING THIS THIS THE
SITE AND A BRIEF TIMELINE.
I'M GOING TO GO THROUGH THIS
RELATIVELY QUICKLY.
THIS WAS LAID OUT KIND OF IN
THE STAFF REPORT THE COST
OF DOMINIC'S PUDI WAS REVISED
IN 2009 AT THAT TIME TO INCLUDE
A NUMBER OF FEATURES WHICH
AREN'T RELEVANT TO THIS
PETITION BUT ONE OF THEM WAS
ONE THAT WAS WAS A MAXIMUM
OF TO CURB CUTS WAS WRITTEN
INTO THE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS AT THAT TIME AND
THAT PROVISION WAS ACTIVATED
WHEN A SITE PLAN WAS SUBMITTED
IN THE DISTRICT.
THE INTENT FOR THAT WAS REALLY
WHEN THERE IS A MUCH LARGER
SITE PLAN, THE INTENT
OF DOMINIC'S WHEN THEY DID THAT
WAS TO DO A MUCH LARGER
EXPANSION OF THEIR BUSINESSES
AND THAT'S WHY THE PEABODY WAS
WRITTEN THAT WAY.
HOWEVER, IN TWENTY EIGHTEEN
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVED
THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION WITH THE
CONDITION THAT THAT CURB CUT
LEADING TO SEVEN HUNDRED TAPPIN
MUST BE CLOSED AND AGAIN THAT
WAS CONSISTENT WITH THE
PREVIOUS APPROVED REGULATIONS
THAT REQUIRED OR YEAH THAT
REQUIRED A MAXIMUM OF CURB CUTS
SERVICING THE ENTIRE PUDI
DISTRICT ALTHOUGH THIS CUT
AGAIN JUST GOES DIRECTLY BEHIND
THAT BUILDING IT IS LOCATED
WITHIN THE OVERALL PUTI
DISTRICT.
SO THAT WAS APPROVED WITH THE
CONDITION THAT THE CURB CUT
LEADING TO SEVEN HUNDRED TAPPIN
IS CLOSED IN TWENTY EIGHTEEN.
THE CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY
WAS ISSUED NOT BY ME BUT IT WAS
ISSUED SO HERE WE AREA IN TWO
THOUSAND AND THE CURB CUT
OBVIOUSLY WAS STILL THERE IN
TWENTY TWENTY ONE THE OWNER SO
AGAIN THIS PREDATES THE
APPLICANTS HERE TONIGHT THE
OWNER REQUESTED CHANGES TO THE
DISTRICT TO ALLOW A MAXIMUM
OF FOUR CURB CUTS SERVICING
THAT DISTRICT WHICH IS
BASICALLY WHAT'S WHAT'S IN
PLACE RIGHT NOW.
SO THAT WAS APPROVED BY CITY
COUNCIL.
HOWEVER, AS PART OF THAT
APPROVAL CITY COUNCIL ALSO
ADDED A PROVISION THAT
PROHIBITS PARKING BETWEEN THAT
BUILDING 700 TAPAN AND THE
SIDEWALK AND IT ALSO PROHIBITED
ANY ANY ANY IMPERVIOUS SURFACE
WITH IT IN THAT AREA AS WELL.
SO IN TWENTY TWENTY FOUR THAT'S
EARLY THIS YEAR LIKE MID LAST
YEAR OR SO I WAS STARTED
DEALING WITH THE APPLICANTS AS
THEY WERE INTERESTED IN
REOPENING THAT REACTIVATING THE
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE THAT WAS
FLAGGED OBVIOUSLY IS AS AN
ISSUE THAT NEEDS TO BE
ADDRESSED.
SO THE PETITIONER HAD
VOLUNTARILY REMOVED THE
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE BETWEEN THE
SIDEWALK AND AND THE BUILDING
AND THEN REPLACED IT WITH SOME
PARISSE PAVERS TYPE THINGS THAT
WAS ALL DONE THROUGH BUILDING
AND GRADING PERMITS.
IT WAS INSPECTED AND ALL THAT
AND OBVIOUSLY PROVED SO.
AND THEN THAT LEADS THAT LEADS
US TO WHERE WE'RE AT RIGHT NOW.
SO BASICALLY WHAT WHAT IS
BEFORE YOU TONIGHT IS THE
ORIGINAL SPECIAL EXCEPTION
WHOSE APPROVAL HAD AS I HAVE
STATED STANDARD THAT THAT CURB
CUT MUST BE REMOVED.
SO WHILE THAT SPECIAL CEPTION
USE IS STILL VALID TODAY,
OBVIOUSLY THAT AND THAT
CONDITION IS STILL IN EFFECT.
WHAT THEY'RE REQUESTING HERE
TODAY IS THE REMOVAL OF THAT.
>> AND AGAIN WE'RE GOING
THROUGH CONSISTENT WITH I HAVE
THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION NEW
STANDARDS LISTED HERE
OF COURSE, BUT REALLY THE MAIN
ONE I'M KIND OF GOING AND I CAN
GO BACK TO THESE THESE ARE THE
SAME ONES THAT WERE IN YOUR
STAFF REPORTS BUT REALLY THE
MAIN ONE I KIND OF WANT TO
FOCUS ON BECAUSE THAT'S THE
GIST OF OUR DISCUSSION HERE
TODAY IS IS THE PARKING ACCESS
AND PEDESTRIAN SAFETY THAT WAS
THE MAIN CONCERN FOR THE
PLANNING COMMISSION PREVIOUSLY.
SO THE FIRST PART OF THE ANSWER
IS KIND OF STANDARD PART
REGARDING THE SURROUNDING USES
AND THE TRAFFIC IMPACT OF THE
SURROUNDING USES.
IN THE CASE OF DOMINIK'S WHICH
AGAIN DOESN'T USE THIS CURB CUT
FOR ANY OF THEIR RESTAURANT,
THE RESTAURANT OR BAR USES SO
THE KEY THAT WE DID LOOK AT
THIS IN SEVERAL DIFFERENT WAYS
AS PART OF THIS NEW SPECIAL
EXCEPTION WAS MEETING STAFF DID
LOOK AT THIS AGAIN WE LOOK AT
IT ALSO FROM ALINE'S THAT
RETAIL USES ARE ALSO PERMITTED
IN THE DISTRICT.
SO IF THEY WERE TO CONVERT THIS
BUILDING TO A LIQUOR STORE
TOMORROW, THEY WOULDN'T HAVE
ANY THEY WOULDN'T NEED TO BE IN
FRONT OF YOU.
RETAIL USES ARE FULLY PERMITTED
AND MARIJUANA WE HAVE IS IS A
RETAIL USE.
HOWEVER, OBVIOUSLY IT REQUIRES
A SPECIAL EXCEPTION TO GRANT
THAT THEY WE'VE RUN BY TRAFFIC
STAFF AGAIN AND WORKING WITH
THE OWNER THE APPLICANT IT'S
THERE'S NO INTENTION TO USE
THAT SPACE.
>> THAT SPACE HAS BEEN USED
FROM TALKING WITH THE OWNER FOR
TWENTY PLUS YEARS BY THE
RESIDENT.
I GUESS THERE ISN'T APARTMENT
IN CASA DOMINICK'S WHICH I
DIDN'T KNOW BUT THAT RESIDENT
EXCLUSIVELY USES THAT SPACE AND
THE OWNERS OF THE SADDAM AND
HAVE INDICATED YOU KNOW, THAT'S
IN HER LEASE THAT PERMISSION TO
USE THAT SPACE.
SO THAT'S THEY'RE NOT GOING TO
BREAK THAT FOR ANYBODY BECAUSE
THAT IS WITHIN HER.
SO THAT WAS ONE OF THE CONCERNS
OBVIOUSLY WITH WITH THE USE
OF THAT DRIVEWAY.
>> WE RAN THAT BY TRAFFIC.
>> THEY HAD NO CONCERNS.
OUR TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERS
LOOKED AT IT, SAID, YOU KNOW,
AGAIN, IT'S IT IS A VERY HIGH
PEDESTRIAN TRAFFIC AREA AS WE
ALL KNOW, WHICH AGAIN WAS THE
VALID CONCERN FROM PLANNING
COMMISSION INITIALLY THE WAY
THAT PARKING SPACE WAS NEXT TO
THAT BUILDING.
IT IS A BACKOUT TURNING
MOVEMENT, YOU KNOW, COULD
CREATE SOME HAZARD THERE.
>> SO WITH THE LIMITED
RESIDENTIAL USE OF THAT
DRIVEWAY I JUST TALKED TO OUR
TRANSPORTATION ENGINEER
YESTERDAY AND HE STATED IT'S
BASICALLY THIS VERY SIMILAR THE
SAME AS ALL THE RESIDENTIAL
DRIVEWAYS SURROUNDING THE YOU
KNOW, THE CAMPUS EVERYWHERE.
>> BASICALLY THERE'S OCCASIONAL
TRAFFIC AND THINGS LIKE THAT
EVEN IF AGAIN THAT TENANT
CHANGES BECAUSE REALLY AGAIN
THAT TENANT DOESN'T NECESSARILY
FACTOR INTO THIS AT ALL.
BUT THE THE SPACE IS STILL
DEDICATED FOR THAT RESIDENTIAL
USE IN CASA DOMINICK'S IS NOT
WILLING TO GIVE THAT UP.
SO THEY'RE KIND OF IN REALLY SO
THAT'S THE MAIN AGAIN, THE MAIN
TAKEAWAY POINT HERE THAT I WANT
TO STRESS IS IS THE IMPACT TO
TO THE TRANSPORTATION SORRY TO
THE PEDESTRIANS ALONG THAT
SIDEWALK AND THE LIMITED IMPACT
THAT A RESIDENTIAL USE OF THAT
DRIVEWAY WOULD HAVE.
ALL RIGHT.
SO BRIEFLY AGAIN, THESE ARE
SOME OF THE ADDITIONAL MEDICAL
MARIJUANA STANDARDS THAT WE
HAVE.
THESE ARE AVAILABLE BUT THESE
ARE STANDARDS THAT ARE REALLY
JUST KIND OF POINTS OF FACT WE
DON'T ACTUALLY HAVE A STANDARD
TO REVIEW THESE LIKE THE
SECURITY AND ODOR CONTROL AND
THINGS LIKE THAT.
BUT IT'S OBVIOUSLY A
REQUIREMENT HERE AND THEY HAVE
THINGS THAT THEY REQUIRED TO
BUILDING PERMITS, STATE
REGULATIONS.
AGAIN, YOU JUST SEEN THIS
PICTURE.
BUT JUST TO SUMMARIZE IT UP,
YOU CAN SEE OBVIOUSLY ON THE
LEFT THE PICTURE PREVIOUSLY
THAT WAS ABOUT 2016 I THINK OR
SO WHICH ACTUALLY GOOGLE HAS A
SIDEWALK VIEW AROUND THIS WHOLE
BLOCK WHICH IS KIND OF ODD NOT
JUST A STREET VIEW, A SIDEWALK
VIEW SO YOU CAN SEE THE SPACE
AND OBVIOUSLY THAT WAS IT.
AND AT THE TIME YOU CAN SEE IT
WAS ACTUALLY SIGNED FOR GREEN
PLANET, THE PREVIOUS OCCUPANT.
SO PARKING THERE.
SO THEY OBVIOUSLY WERE ALLOWING
THE PARKING THERE.
YOU CAN SEE ON THE RIGHT THE
SIGNS ON THE BUILDING HAVE
OBVIOUSLY BEEN REMOVED.
THE PREVIOUS PAPERS ARE THERE
THERE'S A SLIGHT REDUCTION IN
THE SURFACE BECAUSE YOU CAN SEE
IS A LITTLE BIT OF GRASSY AREA
BETWEEN THE PAVERS AND THE
SIDEWALK AND OF COURSE THAT
PLANTER IS NOW IN PLACE.
>> SO WITH THAT I'M GOING TO
STOP MY PRESENTATION AND AGAIN,
STAFF IS RECOMMENDING APPROVAL
OF THIS OF THE MODIFICATION TO
THE EXISTING SPECIAL EXCEPTION.
>> YES, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
WELL, NOW MOVE TO THE PUBLIC
HEARING AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THIS ITEM
OR FIRST CALL AN INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THE PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PRESS STAR NINE IF LISTENING BY
PHONE OR USE THE RES AND
FEATURE IF VIEWING THROUGH THE
WEBLINK FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL
877 EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER MEETING
NINETY NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX
THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY
STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS THAT
HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND USING
THE LAST THREE DIGITS OF YOUR
PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME IF
AVAILABLE FOR THOSE ACCESSING
THROUGH THE WEB LINK YOU'LL
HEAR AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT
THAT THE HOST IS ALLOWING YOU
TO SPEAK WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE
MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND MUTE
TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND SOUNDS
SO THAT WE HEAR YOU MORE
CLEARLY FOR EITHER METHOD
OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
SO YOU KNOW WHAT?
I'LL MOVE TO REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS.
IS THERE ANYONE WHO WOULD LIKE
TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
REMOTELY NEXT?
KELLY, THERE ARE NO HANDS
RAISED CURRENTLY WE'LL GIVE IT
ONE MORE MINUTE NOW ONE
HENDRY'S AHOSKIE PAT YOU
PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION FOR THREE MINUTES?
OK, THANK YOU.
I JUST EXPRESS MY SUPPORT TO
HAVING A PROMO FOR THE LET'S
SAY REQUEST TO REESTABLISH
SHOULD KNOW THEIR MARIJUANA
BUSINESS WHEN GREEN IT WAS
THERE IT WAS GREAT.
THEY TOOK GREAT CARE OF THE
BROWNS GRASS, NO LAWN OR NO
SALT PICKING UP THE TRASH AFTER
EVERY THURSDAY, FRIDAY,
SATURDAY NIGHT AFTER FOOTBALL
GAMES AND IT WAS JUST A REAL
COMFORT LEVEL TO HAVE THEM
THERE.
THEY DID A GREAT JOB.
THEIR CLIENTS ARE REALLY NO
ISSUES WITH CLIENTS AT ALL.
THEY'RE USUALLY FRIENDLY OR
JUST YOU IN AND OUT TYPE
OF THING.
>> NEVER HAD AN ISSUE IS A
QUIET BUSINESS WHICH IS GREAT
AND I GUESS THAT'S THE EXTENT
OF WHAT I WANTED TO SAY JUST
DESILETS FOR THEM MOVING BACK
IN THERE.
>> LET'S KEEP GOING WITH
BECAUSE RIGHT NOW IT'S AN EMPTY
QUIET DEATH.
THANK YOU
.
>> THERE ARE NO OTHER HANDS
RAISED.
ALL RIGHT.
WE WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING AND I WILL READ THE
PROPOSED MOTION WHICH IS
EXTREMELY LONG.
SO PLEASE BEAR WITH ME THE CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION AFTER
HEARING ALL INTERESTED PERSONS
AND REVIEWING ALL RELEVANT
INFORMATION INCLUDING AN
ACCOMPANYING SITE PLAN FINDS
THE PETITION SUBSTANTIALLY
MEETS THE STANDARDS IN CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE SECTION FIVE POINT TO NINE
POINT FIVE SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS
AND SECTION FIVE POINT ONE SIX
POINT THREE POINT G POINT FOR
MARIJUANA FACILITIES AND
THEREFORE APPROVES THE
MODIFICATION TO THE 700 TOP
INDUSTRY SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE
FOR A MARIJUANA PROVISIONING
CENTER.
THIS APPROVAL IS BASED ON THE
FOLLOWING FINDINGS ONE THE
PROPOSED USE WILL BE CONSISTENT
WITH THE PD CASA DOMINICK'S
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT WHICH PROVIDES FOR
GROCERY PREPARED FOOD AND
BEVERAGE SALES AND RETAIL AS
INTERPRETED BY THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS CASE
A ONE ONE DASH
ZERO TO TWO JANUARY 25TH, 2012
TO THE BEAUTY SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATION WERE REVISED IN
DECEMBER TWENTY TWENTY ONE TO
PROHIBIT PARKING AND IMPERVIOUS
SURFACE BETWEEN THE STRUCTURE
AT SEVEN HUNDRED TOPPIN AND THE
PUBLIC SIDEWALK ALONG LONHRO
PARKING IN THIS AREA WAS THE
MAIN ISSUE OF CONCERN FOR THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AT THE TIME
OF THE ORIGINAL APPROVAL THREE
THE PROPOSED USE WILL NOT
ADVERSELY IMPACT TRAFFIC
PEDESTRIANS, BICYCLISTS OR
COLLISION OR ROAD INTERSECTIONS
BASED ON THE LOCATION TOP
INDUSTRY AND MONROE STREET
PROVIDE ACCESS TO THE SITE AND
THE PROPOSED USE IS CONSISTENT
WITH OTHER SURROUNDING USES
TRAFFIC IMPACT FOR THROUGH
DOCUMENTATION SUBMITTED BY THE
PETITIONER REGARDING WASTE
DISPOSAL INVENTORY TRACKING
SECURITY AND OTHER METHODS
OF OPERATION OF THE FACILITY.
THE PROVISIONING CENTER WILL BE
OPERATED IN A MANNER THAT WILL
NOT HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON
THE NEIGHBORING PROPERTIES OR
AREA AND WILL NOT HAVE A
DETRIMENTAL IMPACT ON NATURAL
FEATURES AS MODIFIED SPECIAL
EXCEPTION NEEDS APPROVAL IS
BASED ON THE FOLLOWING
CONDITIONS ONE THE PETITIONER
OBTAINING AND MAINTAINING BOTH
ESTATE OF MICHIGAN MEDICAL
MARIJUANA LICENSE AND A CITY
OF ANN ARBOR MEDICAL MARIJUANA
PERMIT AND PROVIDING
DOCUMENTATION TO PLANNING
SERVICES WITHIN THREE YEARS
OF THE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVAL DATE OF THIS PETITION
AND TO THE PETITIONER OPERATING
A MEDICAL MARIJUANA BUSINESS AT
THIS ADDRESS WITHIN THREE YEARS
OF THE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVAL DATE OF THIS PETITION
AND THAT THE NRA PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVES THE
ATTACHED SITE PLAN WHICH
DEMONSTRATES COMPLIANCE WITH
THE APPLICABLE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION NEW STANDARDS HAS NO
PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT OF THE
PROPERTY IS PROPOSED MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER AND SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
WE ARE NOW IN DISCUSSION UM
BEFORE WE BEFORE I MOVED
COMMENTS AND QUESTIONS FROM THE
COMMISSIONERS I WONDERED MR.
KOWALSKI, IF YOU COULD PULL UP
YOUR PRESENTATION AGAIN.
I HAD A QUESTION ABOUT THE
TIMELINE FOR CLARIFICATION.
HI.
SORRY I HAVE THE PRESENTATION.
YEP.
GIVE ME A SECOND HERE.
THANK YOU.
WHAT YOU SAID THERE PRESENTING
YOUR PRESENTATION ABOUT THE
VERY HELPFUL CHRONOLOGY
CHRONOLOGICAL TIMELINE.
I GOT IT GOING OK AND I CAN
START TO JUST DESCRIBE MY ONE
THING THAT I'M A LITTLE BIT
CONFUSED ABOUT
WHICH IS THAT I
THOUGHT IT SAYS IN THERE THAT
WE WERE THAT CITY COUNCIL
APPROVED A MODIFICATION THAT
ELIMINATED THE REQUIRED AND SO
TWENTY TWENTY ONE THEY REQUEST
CHANGES THAT ALLOW THE CURB CUT
SERVICING SEVEN HUNDRED TOP END
TO REMAIN AND THIS IS APPROVED
BY CITY COUNCIL.
>> SO IF THAT'S TRUE THEN WHY
IS IT THAT WE ALSO NEED TO
AGAIN APPROVE THE THE SPECIAL
ACCEPT THE CURB CUT REMAINING
THIS THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE
PARTY AND THE S P YOU WE I'M
SORRY.
>> GO AHEAD GO AHEAD YOU TELL
ME BECAUSE REALLY SO THAT'S A
GOOD QUESTION.
>> THE ORIGINAL SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USED APPROVAL HAD THE
CONDITION THAT THAT CURB CUT
HAD TO BE CLOSED SO IT WASN'T
DIRECTLY TIED TO THE ZONING.
SO EVEN THOUGH THE ZONING HAS
SINCE BEEN MODIFIED TO SAY THEY
CAN HAVE FOUR CURB CUTS THE
DISTRICT THIS COUNCIL IS ONE
OF THEM THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION
YOU STILL STANDS THAT WITH THE
CONDITION THAT THAT CURB CUT
MUST BE MUST BE CLOSED IN
PREVIOUSLY PART OF A PLANNING
COMMISSION BACKGROUND AS WELL.
WAS THAT OK?
WELL, YOU'RE ONLY YOU CAN ONLY
YOU'RE ONLY ALLOWED TO CURB
CUTS IN THIS DISTRICT YOU HAVE
FOR ONE OF THESE HAS TO BE
CLOSED HERE BEFORE US.
SO AGAIN WHEN THE PETITION
WHERE THE SUPPLEMENTARY
RELATIONS WERE REVISED THEY'RE
NOW PERMITTED TO HAVE FOUR.
BUT THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE
THAT'S APPROVED HAS THE
CONDITION THAT THAT ONE MUST BE
REMOVED.
SO WHILE THE ZONING ALLOWS IT,
THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION DOES NOT
BECAUSE OF THE CONDITION AND
WITH THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION HE'S
ALWAYS SUPERSEDE THE ZONING
WOULD IT WHAT A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION IS ALWAYS THE WHAT'S
THE LEGAL TERM THAT I'M LOOKING
FOR HERE SUPERSEDE SUPERSEDE
THE PD WELL THEY WERE ZONING NO
YOU CAN'T HAVE SOMETHING AS
SPECIAL EXCEPTION.
>> SEE THAT'S PROHIBITED BY BY
ZONING.
BUT RIGHT NOW THE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION IS HAS A STRICT LIMIT
THEN THE PUDI AND THEREFORE IT
IS ALLOWED TO HAVE A YOU'RE
RIGHT YOU WERE ALLOWED THE
MORMON RELIGION TO ATTACH
CONDITIONS AS LONG AS THOSE
CONDITIONS ARE RELEVANT TO THE
STANDARDS WHICH IN THIS CASE IT
WAS AS FAR AS THE PEDESTRIAN
SAFETY ASPECT, YES.
THAT CONDITION A RUNS WITH THAT
SPECIAL EXCEPTION YOU UNTIL IF
AND WHEN IT WOULD BE REMOVED.
>> GOT IT.
THANK YOU.
THAT'S VERY HELPFUL.
AND THEN I JUST WANTED TO MAKE
SURE WE ALL ARE LIKE THERE'S A
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE CURB CUT
AND THE AREA BETWEEN 700 TOP
AND THE PUBLIC SIDEWALK.
SO THAT CONCERN HAS BEEN
ADDRESSED AND NOW WE ARE ONLY
DISCUSSING THE CURB CUT WHICH
LEADS TO THE DRIVEWAY.
>> YES, THAT'S KRANK.
YOU OK OTHER COMMISSIONERS?
YES, MR. SUMNER TO PICK UP
RIGHT THERE, MR. KOWALSKI.
SO OK, I THINK I WAS HERE FOR
THIS LAST ROUND BECAUSE THE
PUDI WAS SUPPOSED TO CLOSE THE
CURB.
THE PLANNING COMMISSION DENIED
THE PETITION REQUESTS AND THEN
IT WENT TO COUNCIL AND THEN
COUNCIL OVERRULED IT.
I GUESS IN SOME WAYS THEY MAY
HAVE THE FINAL SAY BUT I
DIDN'T.
SO THEN DID THAT ACTUALLY
MODIFY THE THE PUDI AT THAT
TIME?
YES, OK, SO THESE BUT WE CAN
STILL REQUIRE WITH REGARDLESS
THIS PETITION ARE FOR US A
SPECIAL EXCEPTION THAT THAT
CURB IS CLOSED.
YES.
IF YOU STILL FEEL THAT THAT'S A
SAFETY ISSUE ABSOLUTELY.
YOU CAN ATTACH THE CONDITIONS
AS LONG AS THOSE CONDITIONS ARE
RELEVANT TO THE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION YOU STANDARDS WHICH
AGAIN IF THEY YOU SAY THAT IT'S
A PEDESTRIAN IMPACT.
>> YEP, ABSOLUTELY.
SO YES, THAT'S DIDN'T PREVENT
THE PETITIONER FROM BEING ABLE
TO OPERATE THEIR BUSINESS
CORRECTLY BECAUSE I WILL NOT I
CAN'T SIGN OFF ON SAYING THAT
THEY'RE IN COMPLIANCE WITH
THEIR THEIR YOU OK,
COMMISSIONER MILLS OBVIOUSLY
YOU'RE NOT JUST IN 2001.
NO, NOT ALL THE WAY BACK WHEN
YOU WERE HERE.
WHAT?
NO, YOU WERE NOT HERE TO TWENTY
TWENTY ONE THOUSAND I'M LIKE
THE SECOND BULLET ON YOUR
THING.
>> I WAS THERE FOR THAT
EIGHTEEN.
YEAH EIGHTEEN DEFINITELY.
SO HERE'S THE QUESTION I AM
CURIOUS THE THE PERMEABLE
PAVERS ARE STILL PAVERS AND
SOME PEOPLE PARK ON THEM AND
THAT BOX IS MOVABLE AND THIS IS
NOT ABOUT THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION
USE THIS IS ABOUT ZONING
OVERALL SO THIS IS LIKE
EDUCATION FOR EVERYBODY OVER
ALL IF THERE IS EVER PARKING
THERE WHAT'S WHAT'S THE CONSUL
IT'S LIKE HOW IS IT ENFORCED IF
SOMEONE MOVES THE FLOWER BOX
AND DECIDES TO PARK THEIR HOUSE
AND FOREST AND THEN WHAT
CONSEQUENCES IT HAVE LIKE
WHAT'S THE CONSEQUENCE?
>> YEP, ABSOLUTELY.
SO A COUPLE OF THINGS.
ONE COMMUNITY STANDARDS
DIVISION THEY DO ENFORCE
PARKING IN THE FRONT STEP BACK
EVERY I'M NOT AS DIRECTLY
INVOLVED WITH THE ZONING AND
ENFORCEMENT ANYMORE AS I USED
TO BE BUT I KNOW FOR A FACT
THEY STILL JOHN BERRY WHO I
TALK TO REGULARLY THEY HE THEY
GET COMMUNITY STANDARDS AS THEY
DRIVE AROUND AND IF THEY SPOT
PEOPLE PARKED ON LAWNS OR
SOMETHING THEY THEY WILL CITE
THEM THEY WILL GIVE THEM A
TICKET FOR PARKING IN THE FRONT
OPEN SPACE.
I DON'T KNOW THE THE AMOUNT
OF THAT THE FINE OR ANYTHING
ELSE BUT WE ALSO HAVE A BOOK
WHICH IS STILL ACTUALLY AN OLD
PAPER BOOK GOING BACK MANY,
MANY YEARS OF ALL THE PARCELS
LITERALLY IN THE CITY THAT WERE
THAT PREDATE THE PARKING
ORDINANCE THAT ARE ALLOWED TO
HAVE PARKING IN THE FRONT OR ON
THE FRONT STEP BACK.
>> SO WE'LL LOOK IN THAT BOOK
AND SAY OH YEAH, THAT THEY'VE
HAD PARKING AND THAT FRONT LAWN
SINCE NINETEEN TEN THEY'RE
ALLOWED SO IN THIS CASE THIS IS
A PRETTY VISIBLE SITE NOW WHILE
COMMUNITY STANDARDS MIGHT NOT
KNOW LIKE THEY MIGHT NOT KNOW
DIRECTLY THAT PARKING IS
PROHIBITED THAT THEY DON'T KNOW
THEY'RE NOT DIRECTLY INVOLVED
WITH THAT ZONING SO IN THEORY
YES THEY COULD MOVE THAT THAT
PLANTER BOX AND START PARKING
THERE.
HOWEVER WE'VE GOT A COUPLE
OF ISSUES WITH THAT SO THEY
COULD DO THAT UNTIL SOMEBODY
NOTICED.
BUT ONE THAT'S NOT JUST A
SPECIAL EXCEPTION VIOLATION
ANYMORE.
IT'S A ZONING VIOLATION.
THE PROPERTY OWNER IS SO WE CAN
SAY THAT THE PROPERTY OWNER AS
WELL AS THE BUSINESS OPERATOR
FOR THE ZONING VIOLATION
OF PARKING WHERE PARKING IS
PROHIBITED.
THEY COULD ALSO IT WOULD ALSO
DEPENDING ON THE ACTIONS HERE
TONIGHT IF IF IT GOES FORWARD
AND THERE'S A CONDITION PLACED
THAT WOULD ALSO AGAIN PUT THEIR
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE IN
JEOPARDY EVERY YEAR THE CLERK'S
OFFICE COMES TO US AT LEAST
ONCE, MAYBE TWICE A YEAR WITH
AN ATTESTATION THAT WE HAVE TO
SIGN THAT SAYS THIS PETITION IS
IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE AND THE ZONING.
SO THAT'S AGAIN WHY WHY THEY'RE
HERE TONIGHT BECAUSE WE'RE
THAT'S NOT GOING TO GO FORWARD
ANYMORE.
SO WITH THE NEW OWNER OCCUPANTS
SO AGAIN, YES, YOU'RE
ABSOLUTELY RIGHT.
PEOPLE CAN PARK ON PAVERS.
NO QUESTION.
SO AND THAT PARK THE PARK THE
BOX IS NOT PERMANENT.
SO AGAIN, I MEAN WE WE CAN
WE'LL USE OUR ENFORCEMENT
MECHANISM WHEN PEOPLE SEE IT
AND IT IS A LITTLE BIT STRONGER
OF AN ENFORCEMENT ARM NOW BEING
THAT IT'S ALSO PROHIBITED BY
ZONING IN THERE.
SO I MEAN THAT'S ABOUT THE BEST
ANSWER I CAN GIVE YOU BECAUSE
YES, IT COULD HAPPEN.
BUT THERE ARE A COUPLE
OF DIFFERENT WAYS THAT WE AGAIN
IF THERE'S PARKING IN THERE WE
FIND OUT ABOUT IT WHEN THEY
COME BACK FOR THEIR ATTACH FOR
US FOR ME TO SIGN OFF, I'M
GOING TO SAY LOOK, YOU GUYS
HAVE MOVED THE BOX.
THERE'S PARKING IN THERE.
>> I'M NOT SIGNING THAT.
SO THAT ATTESTATION IS ONCE A
YEAR OR GETS ONCE A YEAR.
>> IT'S EITHER ONCE OR TWICE A
YEAR THE CLERK'S OFFICE COMES
WELL YEAH.
LIKE
I HAVE TO CERTIFY THE
ZONING IS IN COMPLIANCE AND
THINGS LIKE THAT AND JUST TO
SHARE THE SPECIFIC BECAUSE TO
BEING A MARIJUANA YES.
THAT'S NOT FOR EVERY SIU AND
OK.
OH YEAH YEAH I'M SORRY THAT'S
I WAS GOING TO SAY THAT'S A LOT
OK.
OF WORDS A LOT NO.
I WAS GOING TO SAY THAT'S A LOT
YES NO OK I HAD A FEELING THERE
OF WORDS A LOT NO.
MIGHT HAVE BEEN LIKE THE LOOK
YES NO OK I HAD A FEELING THERE
ON MY FACE I WAS LIKE OH WOW OK
MIGHT HAVE BEEN LIKE THE LOOK
THIS IS INVOLVED BECAUSE OF THE
ON MY FACE I WAS LIKE OH WOW OK
COORDINATION WITH THE STATE
THIS IS INVOLVED BECAUSE OF THE
OF MICHIGAN THAT WHY THERE'S
COORDINATION WITH THE STATE
STRICTER YEAH.
OF MICHIGAN THAT WHY THERE'S
REGULATION OF THE THANK YOU FOR
STRICTER YEAH.
THAT CLARIFICATION.
REGULATION OF THE THANK YOU FOR
>> YEAH, THAT'S A VERY
THAT CLARIFICATION.
IMPORTANT CLARIFICATION.
>> YEAH, THAT'S A VERY
>> OK WITH THE MARIJUANA.
IMPORTANT CLARIFICATION.
GOT IT.
>> OK WITH THE MARIJUANA.
SO THIS IS ACTUALLY GIVING ME
GOT IT.
AN IDEA HER CONDITION BUT WHAT
SO THIS IS ACTUALLY GIVING ME
I'M GOING TO SAY IS LIKE YOU
AN IDEA HER CONDITION BUT WHAT
WOULD THIS JUST HAPPENS TO HAVE
I'M GOING TO SAY IS LIKE YOU
A HISTORY THIS YES.
WOULD THIS JUST HAPPENS TO HAVE
>> THAT THOSE COUPLE HUNDRED
A HISTORY THIS YES.
HOWEVER MANY SQUARE FEET HAVE A
>> THAT THOSE COUPLE HUNDRED
HISTORY OF US SAYING YOU CAN'T
HOWEVER MANY SQUARE FEET HAVE A
PARK THERE AND YOU'RE BUYING
HISTORY OF US SAYING YOU CAN'T
CARS THEY'RE LIKE MULTIPLE
PARK THERE AND YOU'RE BUYING
TIMES SO SO THAT'S THE BAGGAGE
CARS THEY'RE LIKE MULTIPLE
THAT COMES WITH THAT TINY
TIMES SO SO THAT'S THE BAGGAGE
AMOUNT OF ACREAGE IN THE CITY
THAT COMES WITH THAT TINY
OF ANN ARBOR AND PREVIOUSLY AND
AMOUNT OF ACREAGE IN THE CITY
THIS IS THE THING I THINK THAT
OF ANN ARBOR AND PREVIOUSLY AND
MOST PEOPLE DON'T KNOW LIKE
THIS IS THE THING I THINK THAT
KIND OF WHAT IT IT WE DON'T
MOST PEOPLE DON'T KNOW LIKE
HAVE THAT MANY FOLLOWERS TO
KIND OF WHAT IT IT WE DON'T
KNOW MORE PLANNING COMMISSION
HAVE THAT MANY FOLLOWERS TO
SAYS IN TERMS OF US TRYING TO
KNOW MORE PLANNING COMMISSION
MAKE SURE THAT THINGS ARE SAFE
SAYS IN TERMS OF US TRYING TO
FOR PEDESTRIANS.
MAKE SURE THAT THINGS ARE SAFE
LOOK, THAT HIGHLY WALKABLE AND
FOR PEDESTRIANS.
IT JUST SO HAPPENS THAT I USED
LOOK, THAT HIGHLY WALKABLE AND
TO WALK WALK AWAY AND SO I
IT JUST SO HAPPENS THAT I USED
WOULD HOPE TO BE LIKE WE JUST
TO WALK WALK AWAY AND SO I
TALKED ABOUT THAT I'M NOT GOING
WOULD HOPE TO BE LIKE WE JUST
TO LIE LIKE SO I DON'T WORK A
TALKED ABOUT THAT I'M NOT GOING
BLOCK AWAY ANYMORE.
TO LIE LIKE SO I DON'T WORK A
I DON'T KNOW HOW OFTEN THAT
BLOCK AWAY ANYMORE.
WOULD HAPPEN BUT THAT THAT THE
I DON'T KNOW HOW OFTEN THAT
BLOCKING MECHANISM FOR
WOULD HAPPEN BUT THAT THAT THE
ENFORCEMENT IS MOVABLE GIVES ME
BLOCKING MECHANISM FOR
GREAT PAUSE, GREAT PAUSE NOT
ENFORCEMENT IS MOVABLE GIVES ME
GOING AWAY AND SO I PERSONALLY
GREAT PAUSE, GREAT PAUSE NOT
WOULD FEEL MUCH MORE
GOING AWAY AND SO I PERSONALLY
COMFORTABLE ABOUT SOMETHING
WOULD FEEL MUCH MORE
THAT SAYS THAT IF THERE IS
COMFORTABLE ABOUT SOMETHING
PARKING FOUND TO BE THERE THAT
THAT SAYS THAT IF THERE IS
THEY LOSE THEIR SPECIAL
PARKING FOUND TO BE THERE THAT
EXCEPTION.
THEY LOSE THEIR SPECIAL
WHEN YOU ADD A TEST THAT
EXCEPTION.
BECAUSE THAT IN THAT SEEMS TO
WHEN YOU ADD A TEST THAT
ME TO BE THE REAL CONSEQUENCE
BECAUSE THAT IN THAT SEEMS TO
HERE AND AND I GET THAT THAT IS
ME TO BE THE REAL CONSEQUENCE
THAT THEY'RE THERE FOR THE AND
HERE AND AND I GET THAT THAT IS
AS THE PUDI STATES THE USE FOR
THAT THEY'RE THERE FOR THE AND
THE RESIDENTIAL IS IT'S A
AS THE PUDI STATES THE USE FOR
HIGHLY WALKABLE AREA THAT THAT
THE RESIDENTIAL IS IT'S A
CAR IS NOT GOING TO COME IN AND
HIGHLY WALKABLE AREA THAT THAT
OUT.
CAR IS NOT GOING TO COME IN AND
BUT THE USE OF THAT PARKING
OUT.
SPACE FOR RETAIL, PARTICULARLY
BUT THE USE OF THAT PARKING
RETAIL THAT WE DO HAVE
SPACE FOR RETAIL, PARTICULARLY
DISCRETION OVER I SHOULD NOT BE
RETAIL THAT WE DO HAVE
PARKED ON AND I FEEL WAY MORE
DISCRETION OVER I SHOULD NOT BE
COMFORTABLE FOR GRASS OR
PARKED ON AND I FEEL WAY MORE
SOMETHING THAT PEOPLE AREN'T
COMFORTABLE FOR GRASS OR
GOING TO DRIVE ON.
SOMETHING THAT PEOPLE AREN'T
BUT THAT'S NOT WHAT THE SURFACE
GOING TO DRIVE ON.
IS.
BUT THAT'S NOT WHAT THE SURFACE
AND I I'M ALMOST POSITIVE THAT
IS.
IN A TIME WHEN WE TALKED ABOUT
AND I I'M ALMOST POSITIVE THAT
THIS THREE YEARS GO WE SAID
IN A TIME WHEN WE TALKED ABOUT
LIKE IT TO BE A RAIN GARDEN OR
THIS THREE YEARS GO WE SAID
SOMETHING THAT SOMEBODY IS NOT
LIKE IT TO BE A RAIN GARDEN OR
GOING TO PARK ON.
SOMETHING THAT SOMEBODY IS NOT
AND SO PERSONALLY THAT'S WHERE
GOING TO PARK ON.
I FEEL MUCH MORE COMFORTABLE IN
AND SO PERSONALLY THAT'S WHERE
TERMS OF THE LOCATION FOR A
I FEEL MUCH MORE COMFORTABLE IN
SPECIAL EXCEPTION.
TERMS OF THE LOCATION FOR A
YES.
SPECIAL EXCEPTION.
YES IT IS JUST IT'S THE IT'S
YES.
NOT ALLOWED IN THE ZONING
YES IT IS JUST IT'S THE IT'S
COMMISSION BUT IT HAS HISTORY
NOT ALLOWED IN THE ZONING
COULD COULD WE ASK THE
COMMISSION BUT IT HAS HISTORY
PETITIONER TO SPEAK TO WHAT
COULD COULD WE ASK THE
THEIR IDEAS ARE FOR ENFORCING
PETITIONER TO SPEAK TO WHAT
THAT THIS IS A NEW TENANT?
THEIR IDEAS ARE FOR ENFORCING
>> SURE.
THAT THIS IS A NEW TENANT?
ABSOLUTELY.
>> SURE.
YEAH.
ABSOLUTELY.
I'D LIKE I DON'T KNOW IF YOU
YEAH.
GOING TO CHANGE HISTORY BECAUSE
I'D LIKE I DON'T KNOW IF YOU
THEY'RE IN A SENSE THERE IS
GOING TO CHANGE HISTORY BECAUSE
BAGGAGE BUT IT'S NOT ALL THERE
THEY'RE IN A SENSE THERE IS
BAGGAGE.
BAGGAGE BUT IT'S NOT ALL THERE
SO SIR, HOW WOULD YOU ADDRESS
BAGGAGE.
THESE CONCERNS?
SO SIR, HOW WOULD YOU ADDRESS
>> YOU AWARE OF SOME OF WHAT
THESE CONCERNS?
YOU'RE CALLING HIS BAGGAGE?
>> YOU AWARE OF SOME OF WHAT
YOU KNOW, ALL I KNEW WAS THAT
YOU'RE CALLING HIS BAGGAGE?
IT WAS CONSIDERED TO BE ASPHALT
YOU KNOW, ALL I KNEW WAS THAT
AND ASPHALT WASN'T ALLOWED AND
IT WAS CONSIDERED TO BE ASPHALT
IT NEEDED TO BE A NON PERMEABLE
AND ASPHALT WASN'T ALLOWED AND
SURFACE AND THAT'S WHY THE
IT NEEDED TO BE A NON PERMEABLE
DECISION WAS MADE TO PUT IN THE
SURFACE AND THAT'S WHY THE
PAVERS EASIER FOR UPKEEP,
DECISION WAS MADE TO PUT IN THE
LANDSCAPING, ET CETERA.
PAVERS EASIER FOR UPKEEP,
BUT THEN THE PLANTER IS THE BIG
LANDSCAPING, ET CETERA.
THING THAT WE PUT IN TOO IS
BUT THEN THE PLANTER IS THE BIG
THAT EIGHT FOOT LONG SEVERAL
THING THAT WE PUT IN TOO IS
FOOT HIGH PLANTER THAT'S FILLED
THAT EIGHT FOOT LONG SEVERAL
WITH DIRT AND WE NOW HAVE
FOOT HIGH PLANTER THAT'S FILLED
PLANTS IN IT.
WITH DIRT AND WE NOW HAVE
SO TO SAY IT'S MOVABLE.
PLANTS IN IT.
I GUESS THIS IS TRUE BUT BUT I
SO TO SAY IT'S MOVABLE.
THINK AT THE SAME TIME YOU
I GUESS THIS IS TRUE BUT BUT I
COULD SAY PRETTY MUCH
THINK AT THE SAME TIME YOU
EVERYTHING WOULD BE MOVABLE AT
COULD SAY PRETTY MUCH
THAT POINT.
EVERYTHING WOULD BE MOVABLE AT
I MEAN WE'D BE TALKING ABOUT
THAT POINT.
DISASSEMBLING AN ENTIRE BOX,
I MEAN WE'D BE TALKING ABOUT
REMOVING ALL OF THE DIRT AND
DISASSEMBLING AN ENTIRE BOX,
IT'S ALL BUT WE HAVE ABSOLUTELY
REMOVING ALL OF THE DIRT AND
NO PLANS OF USING THAT SPACE
IT'S ALL BUT WE HAVE ABSOLUTELY
FOR PARKING DEFINITELY FOR THE
NO PLANS OF USING THAT SPACE
RETAIL.
FOR PARKING DEFINITELY FOR THE
WE PLAN ON HAVING THAT PLANTER
RETAIL.
REMAIN THERE AND I GUESS THAT
WE PLAN ON HAVING THAT PLANTER
THAT'S ALL I CAN SAY IS THE
REMAIN THERE AND I GUESS THAT
TENANT AND WHAT OUR PLANS ARE
THAT'S ALL I CAN SAY IS THE
AND I THINK THAT'S GREAT.
TENANT AND WHAT OUR PLANS ARE
>> BUT AGAIN, I WANT TO ALSO
AND I THINK THAT'S GREAT.
MAYBE THIS IS THE POINT
>> BUT AGAIN, I WANT TO ALSO
OF CLARIFICATION.
MAYBE THIS IS THE POINT
THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE STAYS
OF CLARIFICATION.
THE LAND IT DOESN'T IS THE
THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE STAYS
REASON THAT ACTUALLY THAT WAS
THE LAND IT DOESN'T IS THE
ONE OF MY QUESTIONS HERE TODAY
REASON THAT ACTUALLY THAT WAS
IS LIKE WHY WE ALREADY APPROVED
ONE OF MY QUESTIONS HERE TODAY
A SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE.
IS LIKE WHY WE ALREADY APPROVED
>> SO I HOPE THAT YOU ARE
A SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE.
SUCCESSFUL THERE AND STAY
>> SO I HOPE THAT YOU ARE
THERE.
SUCCESSFUL THERE AND STAY
BUT IF THAT'S IF FOR SOME
THERE.
REASON THERE'S A BETTER PLACE
BUT IF THAT'S IF FOR SOME
TO BE AND AND OTHER TENANT
REASON THERE'S A BETTER PLACE
COMES THAT WISHES TO USE THAT
TO BE AND AND OTHER TENANT
SPECIAL EXCEPTION, THEY THEY
COMES THAT WISHES TO USE THAT
MAY MOVE THE BOX AND SO THAT'S
SPECIAL EXCEPTION, THEY THEY
WHY HAVING LIKE THAT WILL GIVE
MAY MOVE THE BOX AND SO THAT'S
ME MORE COMFORT BUT I'M NOT
WHY HAVING LIKE THAT WILL GIVE
GOING TO STAND IN THE WAY THIS
ME MORE COMFORT BUT I'M NOT
IS JUST GOODNESS GUYS.
GOING TO STAND IN THE WAY THIS
>> THIS HAS COME BEFORE US A
IS JUST GOODNESS GUYS.
LOT.
>> THIS HAS COME BEFORE US A
ONE MORE THING IS IF YOU LOOK
LOT.
AT THE SITE PLAN WHEN WE TURNED
ONE MORE THING IS IF YOU LOOK
IN THE AMENDED PLAN IT CHANGED
AT THE SITE PLAN WHEN WE TURNED
THE PARKING SPACES FOR
IN THE AMENDED PLAN IT CHANGED
POTENTIALLY FIVE TO THREE AND
THE PARKING SPACES FOR
THAT IS ON THE SITE PLAN
POTENTIALLY FIVE TO THREE AND
CONCEDING THAT AS A PARKING
THAT IS ON THE SITE PLAN
SPACE IT WOULD BE JUST THE
CONCEDING THAT AS A PARKING
THREE SPOTS THAT WE LEASE
SPACE IT WOULD BE JUST THE
BEHIND DOMINICK'S.
THREE SPOTS THAT WE LEASE
>> AND SO WHAT YOU'RE REFERRING
BEHIND DOMINICK'S.
TO ON THE PERMEABLE WOULD HAVE
>> AND SO WHAT YOU'RE REFERRING
BEEN ONE OF THOSE FIVE AND THE
TO ON THE PERMEABLE WOULD HAVE
TENANTS WOULD HAVE BEEN ONE
BEEN ONE OF THOSE FIVE AND THE
OF THOSE FIVE AND FOR OUR
TENANTS WOULD HAVE BEEN ONE
PURPOSES WE'RE NOT ASKING FOR
OF THOSE FIVE AND FOR OUR
ANYTHING TO USE EITHER OF THOSE
PURPOSES WE'RE NOT ASKING FOR
TWO SPOTS AND THAT IS ON OUR
ANYTHING TO USE EITHER OF THOSE
SITE PLAN THAT IT MOVED FROM
TWO SPOTS AND THAT IS ON OUR
FIVE SPOTS DOWN TO THREE SPOTS
SITE PLAN THAT IT MOVED FROM
ON THE COVER SHEET.
FIVE SPOTS DOWN TO THREE SPOTS
YEAH, AND I AGAIN I APPRECIATE
ON THE COVER SHEET.
THE UPDATE.
YEAH, AND I AGAIN I APPRECIATE
I APPRECIATE THERE THERE ARE
THE UPDATE.
PLANS THERE LIKE THE BOX THAT
I APPRECIATE THERE THERE ARE
THEY ARE THERE SIGNS THAT LOOK
PLANS THERE LIKE THE BOX THAT
I APPRECIATE THAT I'M THINKING
THEY ARE THERE SIGNS THAT LOOK
AGAIN THIS IS A THIS IS
I APPRECIATE THAT I'M THINKING
SOMETHING THAT'S DISCRETIONARY
AGAIN THIS IS A THIS IS
BECAUSE DOES IT'S NOT JUST FOR
SOMETHING THAT'S DISCRETIONARY
YOU IT WILL MOVE WITH THE LAND
BECAUSE DOES IT'S NOT JUST FOR
AND SO I'M JUST THINKING ABOUT
YOU IT WILL MOVE WITH THE LAND
TRYING TO MAKE IT PERMANENT.
AND SO I'M JUST THINKING ABOUT
>> THANK LIKE THAT IT'S NOT YOU
TRYING TO MAKE IT PERMANENT.
KNOW, IT'S NOT JUST YOU.
>> THANK LIKE THAT IT'S NOT YOU
SO I'M I I'M FLOATING THAT IN
KNOW, IT'S NOT JUST YOU.
PART BECAUSE I HEARD AND I
SO I'M I I'M FLOATING THAT IN
SUPPORT OH OK.
PART BECAUSE I HEARD AND I
>> BUT IT LOOKS LIKE STAFF DOES
SUPPORT OH OK.
WANT TO SAY SOMETHING AND THIS
>> BUT IT LOOKS LIKE STAFF DOES
IS LIKE THIS IS INAPPROPRIATE
WANT TO SAY SOMETHING AND THIS
COMMISSIONER ROLES WHICH COULD
IS LIKE THIS IS INAPPROPRIATE
BE NO NO NO NO THAT'S GREAT BUT
COMMISSIONER ROLES WHICH COULD
I JUST WANTED TO ADD A LITTLE
BE NO NO NO NO THAT'S GREAT BUT
BIT TO BECAUSE I KNOW THE
I JUST WANTED TO ADD A LITTLE
QUESTION IN THE BACK OF YOUR
BIT TO BECAUSE I KNOW THE
MINDS MAYBE ALSO WELL OK WE WE
QUESTION IN THE BACK OF YOUR
LET IT GO THE FIRST TIME YOU
MINDS MAYBE ALSO WELL OK WE WE
KNOW WHAT'S GOING TO BUT AGAIN
LET IT GO THE FIRST TIME YOU
IT DIDN'T MATTER IT WASN'T ME
KNOW WHAT'S GOING TO BUT AGAIN
BUT IT WAS THE ISSUE ONCE ONCE
IT DIDN'T MATTER IT WASN'T ME
THAT CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY
BUT IT WAS THE ISSUE ONCE ONCE
WAS ISSUED WE'RE NOT GOING TO
THAT CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY
WE WEREN'T GOING TO PULL THE
WAS ISSUED WE'RE NOT GOING TO
RUG OUT.
WE WEREN'T GOING TO PULL THE
WE COULDN'T PULL THE RUG OUT
RUG OUT.
ONCE THEY'RE OPEN IN
WE COULDN'T PULL THE RUG OUT
ESTABLISHING.
ONCE THEY'RE OPEN IN
SO THAT IS WHY WE WERE KIND
ESTABLISHING.
OF SIGNING OFF ON THE SAYING
SO THAT IS WHY WE WERE KIND
THAT, YOU KNOW, IT WAS THE
OF SIGNING OFF ON THE SAYING
CITY'S FAULT WE ISSUED CEO IN
THAT, YOU KNOW, IT WAS THE
ERROR AND THEY'RE ALLOWED TO
CITY'S FAULT WE ISSUED CEO IN
CONTINUE OPERATE.
ERROR AND THEY'RE ALLOWED TO
WE WEREN'T GOING TO PULL THE
CONTINUE OPERATE.
RUG OUT.
WE WEREN'T GOING TO PULL THE
THAT WAS A DECISION FROM THE
RUG OUT.
TOP SO SO THAT IS ONE OF THE
THAT WAS A DECISION FROM THE
REASONS WHY WE WERE WORKING
TOP SO SO THAT IS ONE OF THE
THROUGH IT THROUGH THE THE ARE
REASONS WHY WE WERE WORKING
ALLOWING THE BUSINESS TO
THROUGH IT THROUGH THE THE ARE
CONTINUE OPERATING ONCE THAT
ALLOWING THE BUSINESS TO
BUSINESS KIND OF STOPPED THE
CONTINUE OPERATING ONCE THAT
THE PREVIOUS ONE WENT AWAY AND
BUSINESS KIND OF STOPPED THE
THAT'S WHEN THIS ALL KIND
THE PREVIOUS ONE WENT AWAY AND
OF BROUGHT UP AGAIN AND SAYING
THAT'S WHEN THIS ALL KIND
MOVING BACK INTO THERE THIS IS
OF BROUGHT UP AGAIN AND SAYING
THIS IS THE ISSUE.
MOVING BACK INTO THERE THIS IS
SO NOW AGAIN EVERY TIME IN THE
THIS IS THE ISSUE.
FUTURE AND THIS IS ALSO SO
SO NOW AGAIN EVERY TIME IN THE
WHETHER IT'S MYSELF OR ANY
FUTURE AND THIS IS ALSO SO
OTHER PLANNER IN THAT POSITION
WHETHER IT'S MYSELF OR ANY
AND YOU'RE ABSOLUTELY RIGHT
OTHER PLANNER IN THAT POSITION
THAT RUNS WITH THE LAND THAT
AND YOU'RE ABSOLUTELY RIGHT
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE BUT WHEN
THAT RUNS WITH THE LAND THAT
WE GET THOSE THAT HAS A TEST
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE BUT WHEN
STATION THAT WE HAVE TO SIGN
WE GET THOSE THAT HAS A TEST
OFF, WE'RE GOING TO GO BACK.
STATION THAT WE HAVE TO SIGN
ANY PLANNER IS GOING TO LOOK AT
OFF, WE'RE GOING TO GO BACK.
THAT SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE TO
ANY PLANNER IS GOING TO LOOK AT
SEE IF THOSE STANDARDS HAVE
THAT SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE TO
BEEN MET.
SEE IF THOSE STANDARDS HAVE
BUT IN AGAIN, YOU'RE RIGHT,
BEEN MET.
WE'RE NOT OUT THERE ALL THE
BUT IN AGAIN, YOU'RE RIGHT,
TIME EITHER.
WE'RE NOT OUT THERE ALL THE
BUT I WILL BE OUT THERE ENOUGH
TIME EITHER.
AND I THINK WE WILL YEAH.
BUT I WILL BE OUT THERE ENOUGH
WELL I THINK SOONER OR LATER
AND I THINK WE WILL YEAH.
WE'LL CATCH I THINK THAT THE
WELL I THINK SOONER OR LATER
QUESTION I THINK THAT A BIGGER
WE'LL CATCH I THINK THAT THE
QUESTION TO YOU IS AGAIN, I I
QUESTION I THINK THAT A BIGGER
THINK THAT THE PETITIONER IT I
QUESTION TO YOU IS AGAIN, I I
DON'T EXPECT THAT THERE'S GOING
THINK THAT THE PETITIONER IT I
TO BE ANY ENFORCEMENT PROBLEM
DON'T EXPECT THAT THERE'S GOING
FOR THIS IS THE 15 YEARS DOWN
TO BE ANY ENFORCEMENT PROBLEM
THE ROAD RIGHT WHEN HOPEFULLY
FOR THIS IS THE 15 YEARS DOWN
YOU JOIN THE REST OF YOUR
THE ROAD RIGHT WHEN HOPEFULLY
COLLEAGUES AND RETIRE AT SOME
YOU JOIN THE REST OF YOUR
POINT.
COLLEAGUES AND RETIRE AT SOME
>> YEAH, FIFTEEN YEARS YEAH.
POINT.
YOU PROBABLY WON'T.
>> YEAH, FIFTEEN YEARS YEAH.
ME EITHER.
YOU PROBABLY WON'T.
AND AND I JUST DON'T I WOULD
ME EITHER.
IMAGINE I WOULD HOPE THAT IT'S
AND AND I JUST DON'T I WOULD
NOT PART OF THE NORMAL WORK
IMAGINE I WOULD HOPE THAT IT'S
PLAN TO GO AND SAY HAVE THERE
NOT PART OF THE NORMAL WORK
BEEN ANY LIKE PARKING
PLAN TO GO AND SAY HAVE THERE
VIOLATIONS LIKE THE NORMAL
BEEN ANY LIKE PARKING
WORKFLOW AND SO IF THAT GIVES
VIOLATIONS LIKE THE NORMAL
THIS ADDITIONAL BECAUSE FOR THE
WORKFLOW AND SO IF THAT GIVES
CONDITIONS AGAIN THINKING ABOUT
THIS ADDITIONAL BECAUSE FOR THE
TRAFFIC LIKE THIS IS ONE OF THE
CONDITIONS AGAIN THINKING ABOUT
CONCERNS THAT WE HAVE AND IT
TRAFFIC LIKE THIS IS ONE OF THE
MAY NOT BE SHOWN AS A PARKING
CONCERNS THAT WE HAVE AND IT
SPOT BUT IT COULD BE USED AS
MAY NOT BE SHOWN AS A PARKING
PARKING SPOT WITHOUT YOU.
SPOT BUT IT COULD BE USED AS
IT'S NOT LIKE TAKING DOWN A
PARKING SPOT WITHOUT YOU.
FENCE.
IT'S NOT LIKE TAKING DOWN A
SO ANYWAY I THAT'S THAT'S WHY I
FENCE.
MEAN IF THAT JUST GIVES THE
SO ANYWAY I THAT'S THAT'S WHY I
PEOPLE WHO ARE DOING THE
MEAN IF THAT JUST GIVES THE
ATTESTATION ADDITIONAL LIKE HEY
PEOPLE WHO ARE DOING THE
MAYBE WE NEED TO CHECK
ATTESTATION ADDITIONAL LIKE HEY
SOMETHING ELSE OUT.
MAYBE WE NEED TO CHECK
>> THAT'S WHY I WOULD SUGGEST
SOMETHING ELSE OUT.
IN AGAIN THE PLANNING
>> THAT'S WHY I WOULD SUGGEST
COMMISSION WE COULD IF IF IT'S
IN AGAIN THE PLANNING
FOUND WHOEVER IN THE FUTURE IS
COMMISSION WE COULD IF IF IT'S
OR THIS APPLICANT PROBABLY NOT
FOUND WHOEVER IN THE FUTURE IS
BUT IN THE FUTURE IS NOT
OR THIS APPLICANT PROBABLY NOT
ABIDING BY THAT WE WE CAN BRING
BUT IN THE FUTURE IS NOT
IT FORWARD DUE TO THE
ABIDING BY THAT WE WE CAN BRING
CONDITIONS ARE NOT MATCHED OR
IT FORWARD DUE TO THE
THEY'RE NOT MEETING THE
CONDITIONS ARE NOT MATCHED OR
CONDITIONS.
THEY'RE NOT MEETING THE
THIS IS AN ISSUE AND BRING IT
CONDITIONS.
BEFORE USE A SPECIAL AT THAT
THIS IS AN ISSUE AND BRING IT
TIME AS PLANNING COMMISSION TO
BEFORE USE A SPECIAL AT THAT
TO DECIDE OTHERWISE IT WOULD BE
TIME AS PLANNING COMMISSION TO
REVOKED AT THAT TIME IF THEY
TO DECIDE OTHERWISE IT WOULD BE
DON'T ADHERE TO THEIR
REVOKED AT THAT TIME IF THEY
CONDITIONS THEY WOULD BE
DON'T ADHERE TO THEIR
PUTTING THEIR BUSINESS IN
CONDITIONS THEY WOULD BE
JEOPARDY BY PARKING IN THAT
PUTTING THEIR BUSINESS IN
AREA.
JEOPARDY BY PARKING IN THAT
I THINK IF THEY'D LIKE TO BE IN
AREA.
BUSINESS LONGER THAN A YEAR
I THINK IF THEY'D LIKE TO BE IN
THEN DEFINITELY I THINK THAT
BUSINESS LONGER THAN A YEAR
MESSAGE BY THE CURRENT TENANT
THEN DEFINITELY I THINK THAT
IS LOUD AND CLEAR FROM
MESSAGE BY THE CURRENT TENANT
DISCUSSING THE CONCEPT THAT YOU
IS LOUD AND CLEAR FROM
RAISE COMMISSIONER MILLS ABOUT
DISCUSSING THE CONCEPT THAT YOU
CAN WE ADD A CONDITION THAT THE
RAISE COMMISSIONER MILLS ABOUT
SIU WOULD BE REVOKED?
CAN WE ADD A CONDITION THAT THE
IT DOESN'T SEEM LIKE THAT WOULD
SIU WOULD BE REVOKED?
BE THE MOST APPROPRIATE WAY TO
IT DOESN'T SEEM LIKE THAT WOULD
ADDRESS THIS.
BE THE MOST APPROPRIATE WAY TO
IT WOULD BE BEST ADDRESSED
ADDRESS THIS.
THROUGH ZONING ENFORCEMENT AND
IT WOULD BE BEST ADDRESSED
THROUGH AT A MINIMUM THERE'S AN
THROUGH ZONING ENFORCEMENT AND
ANNUAL CHECK FOR COMPLIANCE
THROUGH AT A MINIMUM THERE'S AN
AROUND THE TIME THAT THEY WOULD
ANNUAL CHECK FOR COMPLIANCE
BE REQUIRED TO FILL THIS
AROUND THE TIME THAT THEY WOULD
PAPERWORK UP BY THE STATE.
BE REQUIRED TO FILL THIS
>> SO IF WE GET ANY COMPLAINT,
PAPERWORK UP BY THE STATE.
IF COMMUNITY STANDARD STOPS IT
,IT WOULD BE ADDRESSED THROUGH
ZONING ENFORCEMENT.
WE WOULD BE AWARE OF IT BUT
ALSO THAT SITE IS DIFFERENT
THAN WHAT IS THAT PARTICULAR
LOCATION IS DIFFERENT THAN WHAT
IS BEING REQUESTED TO BE
REMOVED AS A CONDITION TONIGHT.
SO ARE YOU THINKING THAT YOU
WOULD LIKE TO ADD LANGUAGE TO
BETTER CONVINCE YOU OF THE FACT
THAT THAT LOCATION IS NOW IN
COMPLIANCE
POTENTIALLY?
>> AGAIN, I THAT THE HISTORY
OF THAT PARTICULAR SQUARE
FOOTAGE DIDN'T MAKE IT TO THIS
PETITIONER MAKES ME WONDER HOW
THIS GETS PASSED DOWN.
>> SO THAT'S AMONG THE REASONS
AND MAYBE AGAIN LIKE I DIDN'T
FULLY WORDSMITH IT AND OFTEN
ASK MR. LEONARD NOW MAYBE YOU
MISS SCULLY TO WITH HIM.
>> WE'RE JUST NOT CAN I?
YEAH, BUT IT'S NOT IMMEDIATE
REVOKE BUT LIKE BRING BACK TO
HAVE US RECONSIDER IF THERE'S A
THAT'S BUT I'LL STOP TALKING
AND LET SOMEBODY ELSE TALK.
>> I KNOW COMMISSIONER WHICH IS
A QUESTION BUT FIRST I JUST
WANT TO SAY IT IS IN THE
LANGUAGE OF OUR MOTION THAT THE
PROPOSED USE IS CONSISTENT WITH
THE PD AND THAT IN DECEMBER
TWENTY TWENTY ONE IT WAS
PROHIBITED THAT THE REGULATIONS
WERE REVISED TO PROHIBIT
PARKING AND IMPERVIOUS SURFACE
BETWEEN STRUCTURE BULBAR.
SO IT'S LITERALLY WENT INTO THE
MOTION THAT THE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGS PROHIBIT PARKING IN THAT
AREA.
IT SO IT SEEMS TO ME LIKE IT'S
THERE AND AND IT MAYBE WOULD BE
I DON'T KNOW THAT WE'VE EVER
APPROVED A SPECIAL EXCEPTION
USE THAT HAS A THREAT
OF REVOCATION BASED ON A
VIOLATION.
SO IT SEEMS MORE APPROPRIATE
THAT THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION YOU
WOULD SAY NO PARKING IS
PERMITTED IN THAT SPACE AND I
THINK IT DOES, DOESN'T IT?
IT ALREADY SAYS THAT AND THE
MOTION FOR US IS ACTUALLY ABOUT
THE CURB CUT.
SO IT ALMOST FEELS LIKE A WHOLE
OTHER THING IN A WAY.
>> SO THOSE ARE JUST MY TWO
CENTS BUT I THINK IT IS IN HERE
BUT MAYBE THERE'S A WAY TO MAKE
IT MORE EXPLICIT.
>> OK, SO TWO THINGS.
ONE, COULD WE REMOVE THE
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE THE POROUS
SURFACE NOW AS A PART OF THE
GRANTING OF THE YOU SO JUST
REMOVE EVERYTHING THAT IS THERE
THE BLOCK AND THE PAPERS WITH
THE PROVISION THAT THERE CAN'T
BE PARKING AND EITHER THE SITE
OWNER OR THE TENANT CAN PUT THE
RAIN GARDEN THAT WE TALKED
ABOUT IN TWENTY TWENTY ONE
THERE.
SO JUST A CLARIFYING QUESTION
ABOUT THAT.
>> WELL ACTUALLY ONE QUICK
QUESTION COMMENT ABOUT THE
GREEN GARDEN THAT WAS ACTUALLY
OUR STORM.
OUR PEOPLE ENDED UP NIXING THAT
BECAUSE YOU CAN'T HAVE
INFILTRATION THAT KIND
OF WITHIN 10 FEET OF THE
BUILDING BUT UM IT WON'T BE
AROUND GARDEN HERE.
>> YOU KNOW, LIKE I SAID, YOU
CAN MAKE CONDITIONS IF THEY
RELATE DIRECTLY TO THOSE
STANDARDS THAT THAT YOU HAVE IN
YOUR STAFF REPORT NOW WHETHER
IT'S TO REMOVE THE EVEN
REMOVING PARKING QUITE HONESTLY
THOUGH I THINK EVEN IF THERE'S
AN INTENT TO PARK THERE, EVEN
IF THEY REMOVE THAT PEOPLE YOU
CAN PARK ON GRASS, YOU CAN PARK
ON GRAVEL.
ALL RIGHT.
SO SO FOR YOUR I'M JUST ASKING
THE QUESTION TO UNDERSTAND YES.
THE BOUNDARIES ARE SO FOR YOUR
PURPOSE GRASS PAVERS THEY'RE
GOING TO SERVE THE SAME
PURPOSE.
PEOPLE ARE GOING TO PARK THERE
IF THEY WANT TO PARK.
YES.
YEP.
SO THEN THE THE WHAT I HEARD
FROM DEPUTY MANAGER KELLY WAS
WE'LL DO THIS BY ZONING
ENFORCEMENT BUT WE RECOGNIZE
THAT THE PD HAD A REQUIREMENT
TO REMOVE THE CURB CUT BUT THAT
WAS NEVER ENFORCED.
CORRECT.
SO WHERE IS THE CONFIDENCE THIS
IS A LEGITIMATE QUESTION.
YES, THAT IS WHERE IS THE
CONFIDENCE THAT WHAT WE ARE
DISCUSSING IS ACTUALLY GOING TO
HAPPEN IF THIS IS NOT RELATED
TO THIS?
I REALLY WANT YOU TO UNDERSTAND
THIS HAS NOTHING AS MUCH AS IT
HAS EVERYTHING TO DO WITH YOU
BECAUSE YOU HAVE BROUGHT THIS
IS NOT ABOUT YOU.
THIS IS ABOUT I THINK THAT HAS
PUT YOU IN THIS POSITION AND SO
WE'RE NOW TRYING TO FIGURE OUT
WHAT TO DO ABOUT THE LIMITATION
THAT WE HAVE OR AT LEAST THAT'S
MY POINT OF VIEW.
I'LL SPEAK FOR MYSELF.
I THINK YOU SHOULD GET WHAT YOU
NEED.
BUT WE ALSO HAVE THIS OTHER
CHALLENGE.
SO IF THE ENFORCEMENT HASN'T
OCCURRED AND THAT WAS REDUCING
FROM FOUR TO TWO AND THE ONLY
REASON WHY THE FOUR GOT
APPROVED WAS THE SECOND TIME IT
CAME TO THE PLANNING COMMISSION
TWO TIMES PLANNING COMMISSION
HAD ALREADY DENIED THE REQUEST
TO HAVE THE FOUR CURB CUTS.
THEN IT CAME BACK AGAIN AND
THEN IT WENT TO CITY COUNCIL
AND THAT LAST TIME IT WENT TO
CITY COUNCIL BECAUSE THERE WAS
A TENANT AND IT IS GOING TO BE
DIFFICULT FOR THAT TENANT TO
ACCESS THEIR APARTMENT IF THAT
SPECIFIC CURB CUT WAS REMOVED,
A COUNCIL MEMBER CHANGED OR
THEY VOTED IT WASN'T A SINGLE
PERSON.
SO I GUESS THE WHOLE COUNCIL
VOTED TO LEAVE THAT CURB CUT IN
PLACE.
SO NOW IT'S BACK TO US AND IF
IT IS BACK TO US AND WE SAY NO,
THE CURB CUT HAS TO BE REMOVED,
WHERE DOES GO THEN?
DOES IT STOP?
YEAH.
I MEAN THE ZONING IS WOULD STOP
HERE.
YES.
IF IF THE CURB CUT HAS TO BE
REMOVED THAT'S A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE WELL ACTUALLY IT
WOULD YOU WOULDN'T EVEN HAVE
YOU WOULD JUST DENY THE REQUEST
TONIGHT BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT'S
IN THE CURRENT SPECIAL
EXCEPTION THAT HAS TO BE
REMOVED.
AND THEN WHAT HAPPENED IS WHEN
THEY WHEN THE CLERK ASKED ME TO
SIGN OFF ON IT, I WON'T SIGN
OFF.
SO BUT AGAIN YOUR QUESTION IS
VERY VALID ABOUT THE ZONING AND
THE ENFORCEMENT, WHICH IS AGAIN
WHY I KIND OF STATED PREVIOUSLY
THERE WAS AN INITIAL MISTAKE
AND WE ONCE THEY WENT FORWARD
WITH THAT AFTER YEAR THE CITY
MADE THE DECISION NOT TO TO DO
THAT.
BUT THAT'S AGAIN I CAN SAY THAT
WON'T HAPPEN AGAIN.
BUT BUT THERE'S A COUPLE
OF OTHER WE HAVE A BETTER
TRACKING SYSTEM.
ONE NOW THAT'S IN PLACE.
BUT ALSO THE PD PREVIOUSLY
ALLOWED PARKING IN THAT AREA.
THE DID NOT PROHIBIT PARKING IN
THAT AREA BUT IT DIDN'T HAVE
THE CURB THE WELL IT ONLY
ALLOWED IT ALLOWED THE MAXIMUM
TO CURB BUT AGAIN IT DIDN'T
SPECIFY WHICH CURB HAD TO BE
CLOSED.
YEAH.
SO YOU'RE RIGHT.
SO THE ZONING CHANGE IN THEORY,
YES.
COUNCIL IF THE OWNER REQUESTS A
CHANGE IN THE PRIVACY
REGULATIONS TOMORROW, YOU KNOW,
COMES THROUGH, MAYBE THEY COULD
CHANGE IT AND ALLOW PARKING
THERE AGAIN.
>> BUT YOU KNOW THAT'S GOING TO
HAPPEN.
BUT I THINK THAT WE ARE ON
BETWEEN THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION
USE WITH THE RESTRICTION FOR NO
PARKING AND THE ZONING.
NOW THERE'S TWO CATCHES BUT
UNDERSTOOD THAT IT WAS PASSED
BEFORE WE YOU KNOW, AGAIN IT
WASN'T ENFORCED BEFORE BUT I
REALLY DO IT IS DIFFERENT THIS
TIME BECAUSE WE HAVE MORE
RESTRICTIONS IN PLACE.
WE HAVE A BETTER TRACKING
SYSTEM AND IT'S A MAJOR ISSUE.
>> I WANT TO JUST REMIND AGAIN
SOMETHING THAT PLANER KAWALSKY
SHARED EARLIER IN HIS
PRESENTATION AND COMMENTS WHICH
IS THAT ANOTHER RETAIL USE
COULD OPEN TOMORROW THIS ONLY
WOULD PLACE A CONDITION FOR THE
WILL OF THE COMMISSION TO A
MARIJUANA RETAIL GROCERY STORE.
>> ANY LIQUOR STORE, LIQUOR
STORE, PARTY STARTING STORE,
ANY RETAILER ALLOWED UNDER THE
PD WHICH IS PRETTY MUCH ANY
RETAIL WOULD OPEN AND IT WOULD
ONLY HAVE THE EFFECT
OF LIMITING MARIJUANA RETAIL AT
THIS LOCATION BECAUSE THAT IS
THE EXCEPTION IF WE'RE HONEST.
WHAT WOULD YOU DO IF YOU WERE
THE PROUD OWNER CLOSE TO THE
CURB OR GET A DIFFERENT TYPE
OF RETAILER?
SO IT'S JUST A CONSIDERATION
AND SO I JUST WANT TO RAISE
THAT COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT BE
OK.
>> SO I WAS HERE IN TWENTY
EIGHTEEN WHEN I PUT IT ON THIS
AND I THINK A LOT HAS CHANGED.
I THINK IT IS NOW PART OF THE
PD TO ALLOW THE CURB CUT THAT
SORT OF STARTED THE WHOLE THING
UM I ALSO THINK THIS IS
DEFINITELY ONE OF THOSE
PROBLEMS WITH PADS IS TWENTY
YEARS DOWN THE ROAD WE'RE NIT
PICKING BITS AND PIECES THAT I
THINK WE'VE SPENT A LOT OF TIME
AND THERE'S BEEN A LOT OF MONEY
SPENT ON YOU KNOW, THIS CURB
CUT THAT UH THERE'S A LOT
OF OTHER CURB CUTS IN TOWN THAT
ARE FAR MORE UM DANGEROUS I
THINK.
AND I JUST THINK THAT WE KNOW
THAT THIS HAS I'VE BEEN BY
THERE FAIRLY OFTEN WHETHER IT'S
TO GO TO DOMINICK'S OR TO JUST
GO ON A NICE LITTLE WALK AND
YOU KNOW, I HAVEN'T SEEN THE
PROBLEMS THAT THE COMMISSIONER
MILLS HAS SEEN AND YOU WE KNOW
IT'S ALWAYS A SURPRISE TO
PEOPLE.
IT WAS A SURPRISE IN TWENTY
EIGHTEEN THAT THERE'S AN
APARTMENT THERE AND IT'S A
SURPRISE TO PEOPLE AND WHICH
INDICATES TO ME THAT THAT'S NOT
AN ISSUE AND I JUST THINK THAT
I WAS REALLY HAPPY TO SEE THAT
THERE IS THAT STEPHA'S YOU KNOW
THINGS THAT APPROVAL IS
APPROPRIATE BECAUSE THAT WAS
NOT THE SITUATION IN TWENTY
EIGHTEEN AND I THINK WE'VE
COUNCIL HAS APPROVED CHANGES TO
THE D I THINK WE'RE IN A GOOD
PLACE NOW.
I CAN ABSOLUTELY GUARANTEE
PEOPLE WILL PARK ON ANYTHING
BECAUSE I DO LIVE TWO BLOCKS
FROM THE STADIUM AND GRASS IS
ABSOLUTELY NO IMPEDIMENT AND
YOU KNOW FRANKLY THERE'S VERY
LITTLE THAT WOULD BE AN
IMPEDIMENT TO PEOPLE PARKING IF
THEY REALLY WANTED TO PARK.
SO I THINK THIS IS A GOOD
UH I
THINK WE'VE ALL COME TO A PLACE
WHERE WE WANT TO SUPPORT SMALL
BUSINESSES IN THIS AREA AND
THIS IS A REASONABLE WAY
OF DOING IT.
I DON'T THINK THIS IS A HUGE
PROBLEM FOR PEDESTRIANS.
YOU THE NEIGHBORS SAY THEY WANT
THIS BUSINESS.
I THINK WE WANT A BUSINESS IN
THERE.
HAVING AN EMPTY BUILDING IS NOT
GOOD FOR ANYBODY AND I JUST IT
JUST SEEMS LIKE WE'VE DONE A
LOT OF WORK TO GET TO THIS
POINT WHERE I THINK APPROVAL IS
APPROPRIATE AND IT MAY NOT BE
EXACTLY RIGHT AND IT MAY NOT
FEEL EXACTLY FAIR BECAUSE
OF THIS AND THAT AND THE
HISTORY BUT IT JUST SEEMS LIKE
WE'VE WE'VE ALL KIND OF COME TO
A POINT WITH COUNCIL AND
PLANNING STAFF AND THE
PETITIONER AND THE OWNER THAT
THIS IS ACTUALLY APPROPRIATE
NOW.
SO THAT'S THAT'S WHERE I'M
STANDING ON A ANY OTHER
COMMENTS OR QUESTIONS FROM
COMMISSIONERS
ONCE AGAIN.
>> SO I THINKING GOING TWICE.
ALL RIGHT.
OK THEN WE'RE GOING TO MOVE TO
A ROLL-CALL VOTE.
>> OH NO, NOT YET.
MILLS THIS IS MORE OF A
QUESTION AND I REALLY
APPRECIATE COMMISSIONER EVANS
YOU BRINGING UP THE THE NUMBER
TWO THAT'S NOT A CONDITION BUT
INSTEAD IT'S A FINDING AND I'M
CURIOUS JUST FROM STASS
PERSPECTIVE IN THOSE HOWEVER
OFTEN KIND OF ATTESTATIONS HOW
IS THIS PULLED OUT?
LIKE HOW MUCH HOW MUCH IS IT
USEFUL TO BE IN THE CONDITION
THAT THE THING THAT WE'RE
REALLY CONCERNED ABOUT THAT WE
WANT TO HAVE SOME EXTRA
SCRUTINY TO IS TO JUST CHECK ON
THAT NUMBER TWO OF OUR FINDINGS
ARE STILL TRUE VERSUS MAKING
SURE THAT THE THINGS THAT ARE
DOWN IN THE CONDITIONS ARE ARE
NOT IT AGAIN, IT'S IT'S REALLY
IT'S A GREAT QUESTION AND I CAN
SAY THAT EVERY TIME I'VE SIGNED
OFF ON THAT IN EVEN THE OTHER
PLANETS WHEN WE SIGN OFF ON
THOSE THAT'S USE WE WE DO PULL
UP THE APPROVED CONDITIONS.
THE LIST THAT LITERALLY WHAT
DID PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVE
,WHAT CONDITIONS WERE APPROVED
AND WHAT DOES THE ZONING ALLOW
AGAIN I KNOW SAYING THAT IN
THIS CASE IT'S LIKE WELL WE LET
THAT GO THE FIRST TIME BUT WE
DO LOOK AT THOSE WE WE DO I
MEAN THAT.
SO YES, I THINK THAT IS
RELEVANT BECAUSE WE'RE SIGNING
OFF ON THAT DOCUMENTATION THAT
SAYS THEY'RE IN COMPLIANCE WITH
THEIR SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE AND
THEY'RE IN COMPLIANCE WITH
THEIR ZONING.
SO YES, I BELIEVE MYSELF FOR
ANY FUTURE PLANNER WILL LOOK AT
THOSE CONDITIONS BEFORE THEY
SIGN OFF ON THAT BUT NOT JUST
THE CONDITIONS BUT THE FINDINGS
THAT'S THAT'S WHAT THIS IS
LIKE.
THAT'S WHAT I'M CURIOUS ABOUT
BECAUSE I APPRECIATE IN THE
FINDINGS AND CONDITIONS IN MY
MIND READ A LITTLE BIT
DIFFERENT AND SO THAT'S YEAH.
>> YES, I GUESS IT'S TRUE BUT I
MEAN I THINK AS FAR AS
ENFORCEMENT WE ARE EVERYTHING
THAT'S IN THAT THAT MOTION IS
COVERED UNDER DIFFERENT EITHER
THROUGH THE ZONING OR THROUGH
THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION ISSUES.
SO WHETHER OR NOT EVEN IF WE
DIDN'T LOOK AT THAT SPECIFIC
MOTION LANGUAGE IT IT SAYS IN
THE PUDI THEY CAN'T HAVE
PARKING OR IMPERVIOUS SURFACE
THERE.
THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION IF
GRANTED TONIGHT YOU COULD HAVE
A CONDITION THAT THERE'S NO
PARKING IN THAT AREA THAT WOULD
DOUBLE YOU'LL BE LIKE A DOUBLE
CHECK BUT THAT'S ABOUT THE BEST
INSURANCES WE CAN GIVE YOU FOR.
YEAH.
ANY FUTURE TENANT OR ANYTHING
ELSE.
>> YEAH THANKS.
I'LL JUST SINCE WE'RE MINCING
WORDS THE FINDING IS THAT
PARKING IS PROHIBITED SO THAT
WON'T CHANGE THE FINDING.
IT'S NOT A CONDITION THAT IT'S
NOT USED FOR PARKING BUT I FEEL
PRETTY CONFIDENT NOW THAT THERE
ARE AT LEAST SEVEN PEOPLE WHO
WILL ON A REGULAR BASIS WHEN
THEY WALK BY THAT SITE LOOK TO
SEE IF THERE'S ANY PARKING
THERE AND REPORT IT IF THEY SEE
IT.
SO PEOPLE IN THE AUDIENCE AND
DEPUTIZE MAYBE MR KAWALSKY A
SOFT REQUEST TO JUST CHECK THE
MOST RECENT GOOGLE STREET VIEW
IMAGE NEXT TIME YOU SIGN OFF ON
THE STATION.
YES.
ALL RIGHT.
OK, ARE WE NOW READY FOR A ROLL
CALL?
THANK YOU.
THANKS, KELLY.
WE CALL THE ROLL CALL VOTE.
>> SURE THING.
UM, FOLKS HERE ABRAM'S YES
SECRETARY WHICH I UNFORTUNATELY
WILL BE VOTING NO BECAUSE I
BELIEVE THAT THE OWNER SHOULD
HAVE THIS CUT AND THAT PUT YOU
IN THE SITUATION.
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
COUNCIL MEMBER.
YES.
YES, COMMISSIONER.
COUNCIL MEMBER.
YES.
YES, COMMISSIONER.
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE.
YES.
THAT CARRIES THANK YOU.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
WILL NOW MOVE ON TO AGENDA ITEM
ELEVEN.
THIS IS OUR SECOND AND LAST
OPPORTUNITY FOR PERSONS TO
SPEAK FOR UP TO THREE MINUTES
ABOUT ANY ISSUE THAT IS NOT
LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING ON
THIS AGENDA.
ACTUALLY YOU CAN SPEAK ABOUT
ANY ISSUE SORRY I WAS READING
MY SCRIPT OK, YOU DIDN'T SPEAK
ABOUT ANYTHING YOU WANT BUT YOU
ONLY HAVE THREE MINUTES TO DO
IT.
WELL, FIRST ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THE PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PRESS JARDN IF LISTENING BY
PHONE OR USE THE REASON FEATURE
IF VIEWING THROUGH THE WEBLINK
FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL 877 EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
AND ENTER A MEETING I'D NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF WILL
SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED
THEIR HANDS IN THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUNDS SO WE MAY
HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER
METHOD OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYBODY PRESENT WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME SEEING NO ONE PRESENT?
IS THERE ANYONE THAT WOULD LIKE
TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
REMOTELY?
>> KELLY, THERE ARE NO HANDS
RAISED.
>> ALL RIGHT.
I WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC COMMENT
AND MOVE ON TO AGENDA ITEM
TWELVE COMMISSIONER PROPOSED
BUSINESS IS THERE ANY
COMMISSION PROPOSED BUSINESS
THIS EVENING?
ALL RIGHT.
LET'S START WITH COUNCIL MEMBER
TISH AND THEN COMMISSIONER
MILLS IN A BELATED APRIL FIRST
PROPOSAL, I'D LIKE TO PROPOSE
THAT WE GET THAT UP PULLED BACK
THE ZOMBIE PADDYS THAT WILL NOT
DIE.
JUST LET'S HAVE IT COME BACK IN
A MONTH.
>> THAT'S AN APRIL FOOLS THANK
YOU COMMISSIONER VILLES MINE IS
NOT I'M JUST CURIOUS IF IN THE
FUTURE WE CAN BETTER GET A
BETTER UNDERSTANDING OF WHEN
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS ARE
REQUIRED BECAUSE I HAD A
QUESTION ABOUT THAT TOO IN THE
CASE OF FOR SIXTEEN LONG I
THINK THAT THE ORIGINAL TRIGGER
WAS THE PARK'S CONTRIBUTION IS
WHEN WAS IT IS THAT WHAT YOU
HAD IN MIND?
>> WELL JUST AND ALSO AND I
DON'T REMEMBER ALSO APPROVING
SOMETHING THAT THEN HAD A
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT THAT WENT
INTO COUNCIL SO ALL DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENTS GO TO COUNCIL.
>> I DON'T I GUESS I DON'T
REMEMBER THAT PART OF UH MAYBE
THIS IS PART OF THE SWITCH
ABOUT WHAT ENDS AT OUR TABLE
VERSUS WHAT GOES ON TO THEM.
I DON'T THINK IT'S SUPER COMMON
WHERE WE HAVE THE FINAL I KNOW
THAT IT'S VERY COMMON FOR
REZONING I GUESS LIKE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS AND
REZONING OFTEN GO HAND IN HAND.
BUT THIS WAS ONE THAT WAS JUST
A LITTLE BIT SURPRISING TO ME
SO I'M SURE SO THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENTS BECAUSE IT'S A
CONTRACT ALL CONTRACTS ARE
APPROVED BY COUNCIL SO THEY
WILL ALWAYS GO TO CITY COUNCIL.
BUT THE DRAFT IS CIRCULATED
FIRST AND INCLUDED FOR THIS
BODY TO RECOMMEND BECAUSE YOU
ARE SEEING THE SITE PLAN ANYWAY
.
I HAVEN'T SEEN A DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT THAT WAS STANDALONE
THAT ONLY CAME TO A PLANNING
COMMISSION.
I CAN'T THINK OF A SCENARIO
THAT HAPPENED.
SO GENERALLY YOU'LL SEE THE
DRAFT AND HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY
TO TO RECOMMEND IT THAT COULD
HAVE BEEN SPLIT OFF FROM YOUR
MOTION IF YOU WANTED TO MAKE
AMENDMENTS TO IT OR SO FORTH OR
COULD HAVE BEEN AMENDED WITHIN
THE SAME MOTION.
THE REASON WHY 416 LONG
INITIALLY WAS FLAGGED TO HAVE A
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT WAS THAT
PARK'S CONTRIBUTION AND THEN IT
BECAME I MEAN ONCE YOU HAVE A
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT IT'S AN
OPPORTUNITY TO ACCOMMODATE
CERTAIN THINGS THAT ARE
SPECIFIC TO THAT SITE
DEVELOPMENT.
SO BECAUSE PLANNERS THATCHER
DID INHERIT THIS PROJECT FROM
ANOTHER PLANNER WHO RETIRED
THAT WAS PART OF THE REASON
THAT THE PETITIONER WAS NOT
MADE AWARE AS EARLY AS WE WOULD
HAVE LIKED TO MAKE THEM AWARE.
I ALSO AM NOT SURE EXACTLY THE
CADENCE OF THE PARK'S
CONTRIBUTION DISCUSSION THAT
COULD HAVE ALSO CONTRIBUTED BUT
TO THE POINT OF UNDERSTANDING
WHAT TRIGGERS A DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT AND HOW THEY COME
BEFORE THE COMMISSION.
>> I WILL DEFINITELY MAKE A
NOTE OF THAT GREAT TYPICALLY IN
THE PAST IT WAS NOTED OBVIOUSLY
PARKS CONTRIBUTIONS BUT IF
THERE'S ANY OFF SITE
IMPROVEMENTS THAT AUTOMATICALLY
REQUIRES A DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT THINGS LIKE IF
THERE'S OFFSITE WATER MAINS
THAT NEED TO BE DONE, SIDEWALKS
,WHATEVER TRAFFIC IMPROVEMENTS
THOSE WERE AUTOMATICALLY
TRIGGERED A DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT THIS I JUST GOOGLED
OR I JUST CONTROL LEFT THE UDC
TO SEE IT'S IN FIVE POINT
TWENTY EIGHT POINT SIX AND JUST
MAKE IT'S NOT CLEAR IN THERE
WHAT WHERE THE THRESHOLD IS AND
SO I THINK THAT THIS IS AN
OPPORTUNITY TO PROBABLY PUT IN
WRITING WHAT OUR PRACTICE IS
POTENTIALLY COMMISSIONER.
>> SO POPE CAN'T IT IS JUST
VERY QUICK.
THAT'S PROBABLY A GOOD IDEA TO
TO
TO MAKE CLEAR WHAT THE
TRIGGER IS.
ONE OF THE SUGGESTIONS ON THE
LET'S GET MORE HOUSING BUILT IN
A TIMELY MANNER IS THAT
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS SHOULD
HAVE THE THE THE LEVEL
OF REVIEW THAT THE SITE PLAN
GETS.
AND SO IN THIS IF THAT WERE IF
THAT CHANGE WERE TO BE MADE AND
IF THAT CHANGE IS LEGAL I MEAN
I AM NOT A LAWYER SO I DO NOT
KNOW WHAT OUR LAND USE LAW WILL
SAY ABOUT THAT IDEA.
BUT IF THAT CHANGE WERE TO BE
MADE THAT WE WOULD HAVE BEEN
PLANNING PERMISSION WOULD HAVE
BEEN THE LAST EIS ON THAT
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT BECAUSE
THE SITE PLAN DOESN'T GO TO
COUNCIL BECAUSE IT IS
CONSISTENT WITH THE ZONING SO I
DON'T KNOW IF WE'RE GOING TO
SEE THAT OR NOT BECAUSE I DON'T
KNOW WHAT OUR LAND USE LAWYER
IS GOING TO THINK OF THAT IDEA.
>> BUT THAT IS AN IDEA THAT'S
GOING TO BE FLOATED A QUESTION
ABOUT THE UH, PUBLIC COMMENT
THAT MR. GARBER MADE REGARDING
THE CHANGES TO PUBLIC HEARINGS
.
I DID WATCH COUNCIL LAST NIGHT
AND UM, DEPUTY ADMINISTRATOR
FOURNIER DID INDICATE THAT HE
WOULD MEET WITH THE PLANNING
STAFF TO TALK ABOUT THOSE
CHANGES BUT WHERE WILL WE TALK
ABOUT THAT AT A WORK SESSION
MEETING OR DO WE HAVE TO WAIT
UNTIL IT COMES AS A PROPOSED
CHANGE?
I THINK THAT'S A VERY GOOD
QUESTION.
IT'S NATURAL THAT THE
COMMISSION WOULD BE CURIOUS
ABOUT HOW THAT WILL ALL OF THE
RECOMMENDATIONS AND ITEMS THAT
ARE IDENTIFIED IN THE
RESOLUTIONS WILL BE REALIZED?
I'M NOT SURE YET.
I'M GOING TO HAVE TO WAIT UNTIL
WE HAVE FURTHER CONVERSATION
WITH OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR'S
OFFICE.
OF COURSE ALSO THE RESOLUTIONS
THEY PRESENTED A LIST BUT NOT A
PRIORITIZATION OF THAT LIST.
THERE'S STILL NEEDS TO BE STAFF
CAPACITY ESTIMATIONS TO FIGURE
OUT BASED ON A PRIORITIZATION
BASED ON THE THE LIFTING AND
THE TIME INVOLVED IN THESE
VARIOUS TASKS THAT HAVE TO BE
ESTIMATED.
WILL WE NEED TO SEEK OUTSIDE
SUPPORT?
THE RESOLUTION SPOKE TO BEING
AMENABLE TO THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR'S OFFICE
IDENTIFYING FUNDS FOR THAT
WHICH I ASSUME WOULD BE SINCE
THE HORIZON WAS UNTIL THE END
OF TWENTY TWENTY FIVE PROBABLY
NOT IDENTIFIED UNTIL LIKE THIS
BUDGET SEASON AND WHAT IS BEING
PRESENTED TO COUNCIL NOW.
SO I THINK THERE'S A LOT OF TO
BE DETERMINED QUESTIONS BUT IF
YOU HAVE AN EXPRESSED
PREFERENCE FOR HOW THAT COMES
TO THE COMMISSION IT WOULD BE
GREAT TO HEAR IT FOR ME
PERSONALLY AS A SINGLE
COMMISSIONER I WOULD LIKE TO
HAVE THAT CONVERSATION IN
CONCERT WITH OUR OVERALL
MEETING AGENDA SO THAT THEY'RE
NOT WE'RE NOT JUST ATOMIZING
THAT BUT THAT WE LOOK AT HOW
THE MEETINGS ACTUALLY FLOW SO
THAT MIGHT MEAN TO GO ON TO OUR
WORK PLAN.
SO IN MY MIND IF WE'RE GOING TO
TAKE UP THAT CHANGE, CAN WE
BRING IT TO OUR WORK PLAN AND
COUPLE IT WITH A CONVERSATION
ABOUT HOW THE ACTUAL MEETING
RUNS BECAUSE IT'S GOING TO
CHANGE THE MEETING POTENTIALLY
AND SO I'D LIKE TO LOOK AT IT
HOLISTICALLY AS OPPOSED TO JUST
THAT SINGLE PIECE THAT WOULD BE
MY PREFERENCE AND I THINK THAT
COULD BE DONE THROUGH A WORK
SESSION WHERE WE HAD A
CONVERSATION ABOUT IT AND THEN
THAT COULD FEED INTO WHAT
RECOMMENDATION COMES OTHERWISE
I FEEL LIKE WE'RE JUST GOING TO
GET A RECOMMENDATION THAT WE
WILL DEBATE AND THAT IT'S BEEN
MY EXPERIENCE THAT WHEN WE GET
RECOMMENDATIONS THAT WE DEBATE
AND WE WANT ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION THAT THEN DELAYS
THINGS AND THAT'S THE THING I
AM SENSITIVE TO IS THAT IF WE
JUST GET IT AS A RECOMMENDATION
WE WON'T HAVE FULL CONVERSATION
ABOUT IT.
>> SO I COULD IMAGINE THIS WAS
I THINK ONE OF THE MORE
SENSITIVE TOPICS THAT CAME UP
IN THE RESOLUTIONS.
THERE WERE PUBLIC COMMENTS
ABOUT THIS.
THERE WERE ALSO COUNCIL MEMBER
QUESTIONS RAISED ABOUT THIS.
SO I THINK THAT IN PARTICULAR
WHEN YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
CHANGES TO PERCEIVED
TRANSPARENCY PERHAPS IN PUBLIC
PROCESS, THAT'S SOMETHING THAT
WE DEFINITELY WANT TO TREAD
CAREFULLY ON AND WOULD NOT WANT
TO RUSH THROUGH.
I I DON'T THINK ANYONE ON OUR
STAFF WOULD LOOK TO DO THAT.
>> SO I WILL TAKE THAT TO HEART
AND I WILL BRING IT FORWARD TO
DISCUSSIONS WITH THE DEPUTY
CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
ANY OTHER PROPOSED BUSINESS
COMMENTS?
QUESTIONS?
ALL RIGHT.
WE WILL MOVE TO ITEM THIRTEEN
ADJOURNMENT MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS', YOUR WHITE
SHALDERS IN FAVOR SAY HI.
>> HI.
WE ARE ADJOURNED